Good afternoon, the Vice-President and I welcome you to our press conference.

The Governing Council today decided to lower the three key ECB interest rates by 25 basis points. Based on our updated assessment of the inflation outlook, the dynamics of underlying inflation and the strength of monetary policy transmission, it is now appropriate to moderate the degree of monetary policy restriction after nine months of holding rates steady. Since our meeting in September 2023, inflation has fallen by more than 2.5 percentage points and the inflation outlook has improved markedly. Underlying inflation has also eased, reinforcing the signs that price pressures have weakened, and inflation expectations have declined at all horizons. Monetary policy has kept financing conditions restrictive. By dampening demand and keeping inflation expectations well anchored, this has made a major contribution to bringing inflation back down.

At the same time, despite the progress over recent quarters, domestic price pressures remain strong as wage growth is elevated, and inflation is likely to stay above target well into next year. The latest Eurosystem staff projections for both headline and core inflation have been revised up for 2024 and 2025 compared with the March projections. Staff now see headline inflation averaging 2.5 per cent in 2024, 2.2 per cent in 2025 and 1.9 per cent in 2026. For inflation excluding energy and food, staff project an average of 2.8 per cent in 2024, 2.2 per cent in 2025 and 2.0 per cent in 2026. Economic growth is expected to pick up to 0.9 per cent in 2024, 1.4 per cent in 2025 and 1.6 per cent in 2026.

We are determined to ensure that inflation returns to our two per cent medium-term target in a timely manner. We will keep policy rates sufficiently restrictive for as long as necessary to achieve this aim. We will continue to follow a data-dependent and meeting-by-meeting approach to determining the appropriate level and duration of restriction. In particular, our interest rate decisions will be based on our assessment of the inflation outlook in light of the incoming economic and financial data, the dynamics of underlying inflation and the strength of monetary policy transmission. We are not pre-committing to a particular rate path.

The Governing Council today also confirmed that it will reduce the Eurosystem’s holdings of securities under the pandemic emergency purchase programme (PEPP) by €7.5 billion per month on average over the second half of the year. The modalities for reducing the PEPP holdings will be broadly in line with those followed under the asset purchase programme (APP).

The decisions taken today are set out in a press release available on our website.

I will now outline in more detail how we see the economy and inflation developing and will then explain our assessment of financial and monetary conditions.

Economic activity

After five quarters of stagnation, the euro area economy grew by 0.3 per cent over the first quarter of 2024. The services sector is expanding, and manufacturing is showing signs of stabilisation at low levels. We expect the economy to continue to recover as higher wages and improved terms of trade push up real incomes. Stronger exports should also support growth over the coming quarters, as global demand for goods and services rises. Finally, monetary policy should exert less of a drag on demand over time.

Employment rose by 0.3 per cent in the first quarter of this year, with around 500,000 new jobs created, and surveys point to continued job growth in the near term. The unemployment rate edged down to 6.4 per cent in April, its lowest level since the start of the euro. Companies are still posting many job vacancies, though slightly fewer than before.

National fiscal and structural policies should aim at making the economy more productive and competitive, which would help to raise potential growth and reduce price pressures in the medium term. An effective, speedy and full implementation of the Next Generation EU programme, progress towards capital markets union and the completion of banking union, and a strengthening of the Single Market would help foster innovation and increase investment in the green and digital transitions. Implementing the EU’s revised economic governance framework fully and without delay will help governments bring down budget deficits and debt ratios on a sustained basis.

Inflation

Annual inflation rose to 2.6 per cent in May, from 2.4 per cent in April, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate. Food price inflation declined to 2.6 per cent. Energy price inflation increased to 0.3 per cent, after recording negative annual rates for a year. Goods price inflation continued to decrease in May, to 0.8 per cent. By contrast, services price inflation rose markedly, to 4.1 per cent from 3.7 per cent in April.

Most measures of underlying inflation declined further in April, the last month for which data are available, confirming the picture of gradually diminishing price pressures. However, domestic inflation remains high. Wages are still rising at an elevated pace, making up for the past inflation surge. Owing to the staggered nature of the wage adjustment process and the important role of one-off payments, labour costs will likely fluctuate over the near term, as seen in the pick-up in negotiated wages in the first quarter. At the same time, forward-looking indicators signal that wage growth will moderate over the course of the year. Profits are absorbing part of the pronounced rise in unit labour costs, which reduces its inflationary effects.

Inflation is expected to fluctuate around current levels for the rest of the year, including due to energy-related base effects. It is then expected to decline towards our target over the second half of next year, owing to weaker growth in labour costs, the unfolding effects of our restrictive monetary policy, and the fading impact of the energy crisis and the pandemic. Measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained broadly stable, with most standing at around 2 per cent.

Risk assessment

The risks to economic growth are balanced in the near term but remain tilted to the downside over the medium term. A weaker world economy or an escalation in trade tensions between major economies would weigh on euro area growth. Russia’s unjustified war against Ukraine and the tragic conflict in the Middle East are major sources of geopolitical risk. This may result in firms and households becoming less confident about the future and global trade being disrupted. Growth could also be lower if the effects of monetary policy turn out stronger than expected. Growth could be higher if inflation comes down more quickly than expected and rising confidence and real incomes mean that spending increases by more than anticipated, or if the world economy grows more strongly than expected.

Inflation could turn out higher than anticipated if wages or profits increase by more than expected. Upside risks to inflation also stem from the heightened geopolitical tensions, which could push energy prices and freight costs higher in the near term and disrupt global trade. Moreover, extreme weather events, and the unfolding climate crisis more broadly, could drive up food prices. By contrast, inflation may surprise on the downside if monetary policy dampens demand more than expected, or if the economic environment in the rest of the world worsens unexpectedly.

Financial and monetary conditions

Market interest rates have risen since our April meeting. Financing costs have plateaued at restrictive levels as our past policy rate increases have worked their way through the financial system. The average interest rates on new loans to firms and on new mortgages were unchanged in April, at 5.2 per cent and 3.8 per cent respectively.

Credit dynamics remain weak. Bank lending to firms grew at an annual rate of 0.3 per cent in April, down slightly from the previous month. Loans to households continued to grow at 0.2 per cent on an annual basis. The annual growth in broad money – as measured by M3 – rose to 1.3 per cent in April, from 0.9 per cent in March.

In line with our monetary policy strategy, the Governing Council thoroughly assessed the links between monetary policy and financial stability. Euro area banks remain resilient. The improving economic outlook has fostered financial stability, but heightened geopolitical risks cloud the horizon. An unexpected tightening of global financing conditions could prompt a repricing of financial and non-financial assets, with negative effects on the wider economy. Macroprudential policy remains the first line of defence against the build-up of financial vulnerabilities. The measures that are currently in place or will soon take effect are helping to keep the financial system resilient.

Conclusion

The Governing Council today decided to lower the three key ECB interest rates by 25 basis points. We are determined to ensure that inflation returns to our two per cent medium-term target in a timely manner. We will keep policy rates sufficiently restrictive for as long as necessary to achieve this aim. We will continue to follow a data-dependent and meeting-by-meeting approach to determining the appropriate level and duration of restriction. In particular, our interest rate decisions will be based on our assessment of the inflation outlook in light of the incoming economic and financial data, the dynamics of underlying inflation and the strength of monetary policy transmission. We are not pre-committing to a particular rate path.

In any case, we stand ready to adjust all of our instruments within our mandate to ensure that inflation returns to our medium-term target and to preserve the smooth functioning of monetary policy transmission.

We are now ready to take your questions.

* * *

Q: Cutting rates at the same time as hiking the inflation forecast needs perhaps a little bit more explanation and raises also the question whether you perhaps pre-committed yourself too early to that cut. The second one is that the market currently is expecting some 65 basis points in cuts during the course of this year. Is the market right or about right?

Let me take this opportunity to give you bit of an opening answer and tell you what we did this morning and what happened as a preamble to this morning’s decision. But let me first tell you that we started our meeting this morning by paying tribute to the many men and women who sacrificed their lives on the beach of Normandy today, which is the 80th anniversary of D-Day. And we paid tribute to those sacrifices and those of many others because it enabled us to build what we have built, to disagree in a very civilised way and to have very harmonious and congenial decisions amongst 20 different nationals representing their respective national central banks amongst our Governing Council.

 And it was perfectly appropriate and fitting to do so. Then we decided to cut, and we did so because overall our confidence in the path ahead, because we have to be forward-looking, has been increasing over the last months. So let me explain to you why our confidence has increased in the path ahead. And I will take you back a little bit because this is, after all, the first time in many years that we make that kind of decision. And these things do not happen in a vacuum. 

So I’ll take you back a little bit to our monetary policy cycle, to remind you that we have had two successive phases and we have made that decision. So the first phase, as you will remember, was a phase of very robust and rapid tightening. We tightened by 450 basis points between July 2022 and September 2023. Then we moved into a phase of holding from September 2023 up until today. And if we look back at those phases, during each of those phases we divided inflation by half. So if you look at the peak of inflation, in October 2022, we were at 10.6% – double-digit inflation on average. Now fast forward to September 2023, we were at 5.2%. Fast forward to today, we are at 2.6%. So at each and every step of the way, when we reassess and decided to move in a different direction, we had halved inflation. 

I think the second element that we took very much into account was the reliability and the strength of our projections. And there is one particular line of projections which to many of us was relevant. If you look at Q4 2025 projections – you look at September, you look at December, you look at March, you look at June – there’s a variation between those projections of 0.10 percentage points. So it’s either 2 or 1.9 or 2 or 1.9 or 2. And it’s on the basis of this reliability and solidity and robustness of those projections that we have made that decision to actually cut. 

I’m sure that you will be asking “What about next time?” and I will invariably tell you the same thing, which is what is included in the monetary policy statement. We shall be data-dependent and we shall decide meeting by meeting. But to say that is probably not enough. And how we collect data matters, but what is also more important is how we analyse the data. And I’m not only specifically pointing at one set of data, but all the data that we get. 

We’re looking at it under the prism of our three criteria. You will have noticed that I have repeated three times, I think, in this monetary policy statement the three criteria, which are the inflation outlook on the basis of the financial and economic data that we collect. It’s the underlying inflation, and it’s the transmission of monetary policy. So it’s under the prism of these three criteria that we analyse all the data that we have available. And we need to have those data. We need to have enough of those data to make a relevant and appropriate analysis that took us this time around to this decision. On your second question, markets do what markets have to do, and we do what we have to do. 

Q: You just mentioned that you need enough data to take your decisions, and back in March you said that you will know a little more by April and a lot more by June. Are we in a similar situation where only a little more will be known by the next meeting and a lot more by the one after that? And more broadly on this topic, some argue that some of your meetings coincide with the release of key indicators and therefore that those policy meetings are more important. What do you think of this view? Do you share it?

You are correct that there is no perfect synchronization between our meetings and our decisions and the publication of particular data. I’m thinking of one particular data that will come for publication tomorrow, which is the compensation per employee (CPE) for Q1, which obviously is relevant because we look very carefully at wages from all possible angles of analysis and CPE is a relevant point. It’s not the only one. Wages are an important field of data that we need to analyse, but CPE is one of them and it’s only being published tomorrow. So what we try to do, just to take you a little bit behind the scenes, is we collect as much data as are available. And at the moment we have about 15 countries or so and a very large portion of the euro area economy. And we calculate what is the likelihood of that number to better assess and test our resolve. That’s what we have to do, and there is no perfect synchronization between the dates of publication, which are set, and the dates of our monetary policy meetings, which are also set. And they don’t coincide necessarily all the time. 

You also asked what kind of data we are talking about. First of all, it is data. Second, it is enough data so that the analysis that we conduct under the three criteria that I have mentioned can actually be relevant. So I’m not going to tell you today, nor at any point in time until much later on in the summer, whether we do this now or we do something else at another point in time. The only thing I’m telling you is that we need sufficient data, and data comes in gradually over the course of time. We need sufficient data to actually corroborate the view that we have that the disinflationary path is being confirmed and warrants further decisions.

Q: You mentioned the different phases the ECB went through with the holding phase recently. With the cut today, are we entering the dialling-back phase you mentioned in your March speech at the ECB Watchers Conference? Should we expect a series of rate cuts or could it also be a case that this one is a one and done? My second question: your chief economist recently said that interest rates need to remain restrictive this year but that the ECB wants to remove the top level of restriction. What does that mean? How much can the ECB cut interest rates before they are no longer sufficiently restrictive?

First of all, thank you for reading my speech or for having been in the room. That was the Watchers speech, in which in a sort of prospective but also vaguely academic way I tentatively analysed the phases that we had gone through and anticipated what could come next. Are we today moving into a dialling-back phase? I wouldn’t volunteer that. Because, as I said, we are making a decision on the basis of the confidence that we have that we are on a path. But at each and every point in time in the course of the next few months, we will need data and more data and analysis of those data to constantly confirm that we are on this disinflationary path. We know the destination. We know the direction that we are taking. We know the methodology that we will apply. We know the volume of multiple data that we should be receiving, and that will accumulate and corroborate hopefully. 

But I cannot confirm that it is the dialling-back process that is underway. There’s a strong likelihood, but it will be data-dependent and what is very uncertain is the speed at which we travel and the time that it will take. Again, this will be determined by the data that we receive. 

You asked me about the restrictiveness. We are currently restrictive, even after this 25 basis point cut, as you well know. And we are today more restrictive in real interest rate terms than we were back in September. So what we’re doing here, as indicated by our chief economist Philip Lane, is removing a degree of restriction. We are moderating the level of restriction that applies. That’s exactly what we are doing at the moment. How long will that take? As I said, I cannot tell you now. At what speed will it happen? I cannot tell you now either. It will be delivered by the data. I’m sure that you will hear some of my excellent colleagues take their view. It will take such time, or it will move at such speed. 

I would caution against any such conclusion for one simple reason. We know the path we are on, but we also know that there will be other bumps on the road. I said last time when we were together that we were travelling that journey on a road that was downward towards the 2%, but that there would be bumps on the road. There are bumps that we can more or less predict and that we can anticipate. Base effects are a case in point. But there are bumps on the road that can come as a surprise. There are bumps on the road that we can anticipate, but the magnitude of which we are not totally confident about. Wages is another case in point. Depending on which country you look at or depending on what collective agreement you look at, there can be a massive amount of catching up. There could be a front-loaded agreement to increase wages and then it fades away. So all these things have idiosyncratic characteristics that will actually either increase, reduce or deliver the same level of bumps that that we are considering. But we know it’s going to be a bumpy road. Let’s face it, the next few months will continue to be bumpy. We know that.

Q: Firstly, you talked about the importance of the data and you had stressed before this meeting the importance of the first quarter data and particularly the wage data and that you’d hope to see a moderation there. You didn’t see a moderation. You saw an acceleration in the wage data back to almost a record high. So can you explain why what you saw was still enough to allow you to cut? And secondly, you’ve predicted that there will be a moderation in wages in the eurozone later this year. Do you need to see that moderation actually happen before you can cut again?

Again, what we wanted before making that decision was collectively to increase our confidence level that the path ahead was on its disinflationary rhythm that we needed in order to make our decision. And to do that we looked back at the last time we decided to hike, which was in September, and we assessed the journey from September 2023 up until now. And as I just said in the previous answer, there are bumps on this road that we are travelling with more confidence that the disinflationary path is actually materialising. We will be looking at multiple data, not only wages. But you’re quite right to take me back to wages, because wages matter enormously in a tight labour market when it comes to services. And we know that services are an important element of the items in the index, which have been rising. The last service, our number that we had was 3.7. That was back in April. It went up to 4.1 in May after a series of fours in March, February and January before that. And what’s at the root of this increase in service prices is predominantly wages. 

So what happened to wages in the last few months? First of all, there has been divergence between countries. So we really looked under the bonnet of wages and we looked under the bonnet of countries because some of the decisions that were made were country-specific. I’ll take one example: Germany. In Germany, most of those collective agreements are negotiated every two to three years. And to give you a more specific example, a public service agreement actually happened in 2024 and has now compensated for the lost purchasing power since 2021, which is when the last agreement was reached in the public service. So you can imagine that an agreement that is cut in 2024 and that covers [lost purchasing power in] 2021, 2022 and 2023 is obviously going to be very sizeable, and it was – in the 12% range. We have exactly the same story for the retail sector, which is quite significant, where again an agreement has been reached now, which is an ovation compared with three years ago. 

Then we have to analyse what’s underneath. There is catching up and frontloading. Is it also accounting for future years? It’s not too clear in the public service, but it’s very clear in the retail sector agreement. So that leads us to assume that wages will continue to remain elevated. If you look at negotiated wages, in the first quarter they were at 4.7%. If you look at compensation per employee based on what we can calculate on the basis of 15 countries, it was 4.7%. Compared with 4.5% in Q4 [2023] for negotiated wages in the fourth quarter, 4.7% is the same stabilisation on the compensation per employee in the fourth quarter. 

So we have elevated levels, tentative stabilisation and then we look at our third indicator, which is the wage tracker, which includes seven euro area countries, including the largest ones. So we cover a very large chunk of European economic activity and labour markets. And what that wage tracker tells us is that while the stock of agreements and various accords that are recorded by the wage tracker is still elevated, when we look at the flow [since last year] – what is coming in now – we are seeing a decline in wage growth. Wages are not an easy matter, because they are peculiar as they include lots and lots of elements. You have catching up, you have social security contributions, you have what we call wage drift, which includes a lot of very specific items, including overtime, including differential between low-paid and high-paid employees and all the rest of it. So we try to really combine and confront all this data and all this information to analyse it. And that leads to the conclusion that while still elevated – no question about that – we are seeing those wages on a declining path. 

And that will particularly be the case in 2025 because the 12% decided in 2024 are not going to be producing the same impact in 2025. And that is, I think, even comforted by the fact that this particular projection exercise is checked and cross-checked and produced jointly by the staff of the ECB and the staff of the national central banks, which really have their fingers on the pulse of those collective agreements and compensation per employees. The second part of your question was how long it will take or how much more you see. We are going to look at data as they come in. On wages and profits, it’s not a monthly exercise. It comes at a different interval. And we will have to test our assumption of declining wages towards the end of 2024 and seriously less elevated wages in 2025 in the course of the next few weeks and months.

Q: Following up on a previous question, given that you will need data and more data, do you think that projection round meetings of the Governing Council could be more suitable for interest rate decisions given that you will have also forecasts available? The second question is: how divided is the Governing Council over the future path of interest rates? A third one would be if it was a unanimous decision today?

You can’t go more than two, but OK, I’ll take the three. I’ll start with the third one. Was it a unanimous decision? Yes, but for one governor. So I’ll leave it to your sagacity to identify who it is. Were we divided as far as the path ahead is concerned, we were all absolutely united to agree that our path would be data-dependent, that we would decide meeting by meeting and there was absolutely no dissent on that front. We also confirmed that our criteria, the three that I have mentioned, inflation outlook, underlying inflation, strength of monetary policy transmission, will continue to drive our analysis of data going forward. 

Regarding your first question, first of all, those are not our projections. Those are the projections of staff. And it’s obvious that projections produced by staff on a regular basis are very informative, go deep into the data that we receive, analyse at length, produce scenarios, analysis, sensitivity analysis, and that this is very helpful for us to make decisions. But that doesn’t mean to say, and I would not say that now, that we would only decide at the time of projection meetings. Because we have to be data-dependent at all times. But obviously, we have more data when we have projection meetings.

Q: Some months ago you were standing at this location promising the people in the eurozone that the Governing Council is determined to break the neck of inflation. Would you say that the neck has been broken? One could have some doubts seeing the current data and also your projections. What is your view on that? And connected with this, we have heard a lot of criticism already before this session and a lot of doubt as to whether this rate cut is really at the right point, because some people are doubting that inflation indeed is on the right track. We have now started the voting for the European Parliament and, as you know, there’s a lot of criticism of European institutions. Is it really the right point in time to take these decisions when some people may now get the impression that the ECB doesn’t take the combat of inflation seriously enough anymore?

I can assure you that we take the fight against inflation extremely seriously. If there is one thing that I have learned in this job is that we have to be persistent, we have to be determined, we have to be data-dependent, but we cannot give up on the objective. And our objective is to tame inflation and to bring inflation back to 2% in the medium term. So let there be no doubt about our determination to tame inflation and to restore price stability. And I will mention three numbers for you, because I think that in my sleepless nights I try to have that in the back of my mind. And there’s that little voice that says, “Carry on, carry on”. In October 2022 inflation on average in the euro area was 10.6%. In September 2023, less than a year later, inflation was 5.2%. That was the reading of August, because we made the decision in September. Today it is 2.6%. Each and every step of the way we divided inflation by two. I don’t want to divide the next inflation by two, because if we divide 2.6 by two, we have 1.3. Our commitment is 2%. We don’t want to go there, but as is very clearly stated in the monetary policy statement, we are moderating our restrictive stance. It is still restrictive. And we will continue to be restrictive as long as necessary to bring inflation to 2% in a timely manner. Have no doubt about that.

Q: What do you think about the level of concentration in the Spanish banks and what could happen with this if BBVA is successful in its offer for Sabadell? Could it be a problem for competition or maybe for the financial stability?

Vice-President Luis de Guindos: I think that we have been crystal clear with respect to them. We do not elaborate or comment on transactions and deals that have not been finalised yet. Our party line has been quite clear. We will make an assessment about any kind of transaction that implies mergers and the purchase of stakes in banks, but this assessment will be based on prudential and solvency issues. That’s what I can say now. And we will see the outcome at the end.

Q: In the moment that we are right now, can you be more clear in your assumption of where the neutral rate is currently? Second, was the governor that wasn’t on board with the cut looking for a bigger cut or an unchanged rate cut and keeping it on hold? And what was the argument, if you can tell us?

The answer to that question is no, because that’s the privacy of the deliberations to the extent that they relate to one particular person. But I’m sure you will identify that person quickly and will be able to get that information from him. 

More seriously, on the neutral rate, you know that I have refrained systematically from erring towards a particular number or identifying a neutral rate or a range around the neutral rate. I will simply say this: if it has increased compared with where it was before the coronavirus (COVID-19), we also know that we are far away from the neutral rate now. And by moving from 4% to 3.75% on the DFR, we are not close to the neutral rate. So we still have a way to go.

Q: I’m from Croatia, the latest member of the eurozone. We still had the highest rate of inflation in May of 4.3%, followed by Belgium in second, but on the other side we had the biggest growth in the eurozone in the last quarter of 3.9%. Are we at risk because of this decision today? And what do you expect? It’s hard to really make a decision that affects all of these countries in the eurozone and to expect inflation to really go down.

First of all, welcome to this circle, and we’re very happy that Croatia has joined and has extended the circle to 20. Your question is similar to the ones that we had when some of the Baltic States in particular were cruising at much higher inflation rates than the average in the euro area. And it’s the whole issue of divergences that we have amongst ourselves because we have different fundamentals, because we have different heritage, because of different structural rigidities as well. From an ECB standpoint, we have to look at euro area data and we cannot go down into the specificities. We have to be mindful of the divergences and we do publish – we will be publishing soon actually – a convergence report that will identify these divergences and how close countries are getting. We very much believe that inflation will come down and we will continue this disinflationary process and that that will apply to all Member States. But again, the pace and consistency between countries is always going to be an issue. I hope it’s not too big an issue. And obviously having growth and strong demand has its disadvantages as well as benefits.

Q: The French President, Emmanuel Macron, has proposed to extend the mandate of the ECB to economic growth and climate protection. What’s your view on that? And I would be curious on your view also on the proposal to publish a dot plot from Isabel Schnabel. Would you support this idea or not?

At the ECB we have a very clear mandate, and that mandate is enshrined in the Treaty and that mandate is a focus on delivering price stability. We believe that that price stability mandate provides solid guideposts and boundaries for our monetary policy strategy. We don’t see a need nor do we have the capacity or the competence to change that. I would also observe that providing price stability and giving predictability to sustainable investment is certainly one of the various contributions that we can make in relation to the fight against climate change. We have different sets of actions, from risk management to better modelling and including climate change risks and mitigation measures in our work. But providing price stability is certainly a good way to tell those investors in sustainable projects you have price stability and the ECB will be here to guarantee that prices are stable. There’s nothing like waves of inflation to discourage investments that require a long-term perspective and a later return on investment. The dot plot mechanism is an interesting concept, and I think I would leave it at that.

###

こんにちは、副総裁とともに記者会見にようこそ。

欧州中央銀行（ECB）理事会は本日、主要3金利を25bp引き下げることを決定した。インフレ見通し、基調的なインフレ率の動向、金融政策の伝播の強さに関する最新の評価に基づき、9ヵ月間金利を据え置いた後、金融政策の引き締め効果を緩やかにすることが適切であると判断した。2023年9月の会合以降、インフレ率は2.5ポイント以上低下し、インフレ見通しは著しく改善した。基調的なインフレ率も緩和し、物価上昇圧力が弱まった兆候が強まり、インフレ期待はすべての見通しで低下した。金融政策は引き締め効果を維持してきた。需要を減衰させ、インフレ期待を良好に維持することで、これはインフレ率の低下に大きく貢献した。

同時に、ここ数四半期の進展にもかかわらず、賃金上昇率が高いため、国内物価圧力は依然として強く、インフレ率は来年も目標を上回って推移する可能性が高い。ユーロシステムのスタッフによる最新の予測では、ヘッドライン・インフレ率およびコア・インフレ率ともに、2024年と2025年について3月の予測から上方修正された。スタッフは現在、ヘッドラインインフレ率の平均は2024年に2.5％、2025年に2.2％、2026年に1.9％と見ている。エネルギーと食品を除くインフレ率は、2024年平均2.8％、2025年平均2.2％、2026年平均2.0％である。経済成長率は2024年に0.9％、2025年に1.4％、2026年に1.6％まで回復すると予想される。

我々は、インフレ率がタイムリーに2％の中期目標に戻ることを確実にすることを決定要因としている。我々は、この目標を達成するために必要な限り、政策金利を十分に引き締め効果を維持する。我々は、引き締め効果の適切な水準と期間を決定するために、データに依存し、会合ごとのアプローチに引き続き従う。特に、私たちの金利決定は、基調的な経済・金融データ、基調的なインフレ率の動態、金融政策の伝達の強さに照らしたインフレ見通しの評価に基づいて行われる。我々は、特定の金利パスを事前に約束するものではない。

また本日、ユーロシステム運営理事会は、パンデミック緊急購入プログラム（PEPP）の下でユーロシステムが保有する証券を、今年後半にかけて月平均75億ユーロ削減することを確認した。PEPPの保有残高を削減する方法は、資産購入プログラム（APP）の下での方法とほぼ同じである。

本日の決定は、当行のウェブサイトで入手可能なプレスリリースに記載されている。

次に、経済とインフレの動向についてより詳しく説明し、金融・通貨環境の評価について説明する。

経済活動

5四半期にわたる停滞の後、ユーロ圏経済は2024年第1四半期に0.3％の成長を遂げた。サービス部門は拡大し、製造業は低水準で安定化の兆しを見せている。賃金の上昇と交易条件の改善が実質所得を押し上げるため、景気は回復を続けると予想される。また、世界的な財・サービス需要の高まりを受け、輸出の拡大も今後数四半期の成長を支えるだろう。最後に、金融政策は時間の経過とともに需要の足かせにならなくなるはずである。

今年第1四半期の雇用者数は0.3％増加し、約50万人の新規雇用が創出された。失業率は4月に6.4％まで低下し、ユーロ開始以来の最低水準となった。企業の求人倍率は、以前より若干低下したものの、依然として高い水準にある。

国の財政・構造政策は、経済の生産性と競争力を高めることを目指すべきであり、それは潜在成長率を高め、中期的な物価上昇圧力を軽減するのに役立つだろう。次世代EU計画の効果的、迅速かつ完全な実施、資本市場統合と銀行統合の完了に向けた進展、単一市場の強化は、イノベーションを促進し、グリーンおよびデジタル移行への投資を拡大するのに役立つだろう。EUの改訂された経済ガバナンスの枠組みを遅滞なく完全実施することは、各国政府が財政赤字と債務比率を持続的に引き下げるのに役立つだろう。

インフレ率

ユーロスタットの速報値によると、5月の年間インフレ率は4月の2.4%から2.6%に上昇した。食品価格インフレ率は2.6％に低下した。エネルギー価格インフレ率は0.3％に上昇した。5月の物品価格インフレ率は引き続き低下し、0.8％となった。対照的にサービス価格インフレ率は著しく上昇し、4月の3.7％から4.1％になった。

基調的なインフレ率の大半は、データが入手可能な最後の月である4月に一段と低下し、物価上昇圧力が徐々に弱まっていることを裏付けている。しかし、国内インフレ率は依然として高い。賃金は依然として高いペースで上昇しており、過去のインフレ高進を補っている。賃金の調整プロセスは時差があり、単発の支払いが重要な役割を果たすため、第1四半期の交渉賃金の上昇に見られるように、人件費は当面変動する可能性が高い。同時に、先行き指標は、年内の賃金の伸びが緩やかになることを示唆している。単位労働コストの顕著な上昇の一部を利益が吸収しているため、インフレの影響が小さくなっている。

インフレ率は、エネルギー関連のベース効果も含め、年内は現在の水準前後で変動すると予想される。その後、労働コストの伸びが弱まり、金融政策の引き締め効果が現れ、エネルギー危機とパンデミックの影響が薄れるため、来年後半には目標に向かって低下すると予想される。長期的なインフレ期待の指標は概ね安定しており、その多くは2％前後で推移している。

リスク評価

経済成長に対するリスクは、短期的には均衡しているが、中期的には依然として下向きに傾いている。世界経済の低迷や主要国間の貿易摩擦の激化は、ユーロ圏の成長の重荷となるだろう。ロシアのウクライナに対する不当な戦争と中東の悲劇的な紛争は地政学的リスクの主な源である。その結果、企業や家計が将来に対する自信を失い、世界貿易が混乱する可能性がある。金融政策の効果が予想以上に強まれば、成長率も低下する可能性がある。インフレ率が予想以上に急速に低下し、景況感や実質所得の上昇によって支出が予想以上に増加した場合や、世界経済が予想以上に力強く成長した場合には、成長率が上昇する可能性がある。

賃金や利益が予想以上に増加すれば、インフレ率は予想以上に高くなる可能性がある。インフレの上振れリスクは、地政学的緊張の高まりにも起因する。地政学的緊張は、当面のエネルギー価格と運賃を押し上げ、世界貿易を混乱させる可能性がある。さらに、異常気象や、より広範に展開する気候危機が食料品価格を押し上げる可能性もある。これとは対照的に、金融政策が需要を予想以上に減衰させた場合、または世界の経済環境が予想外に悪化した場合には、インフレ率が下振れする可能性がある。

金融・金融環境

市場金利は4月の会合以来上昇している。過去の政策金利引き上げが金融システムに浸透するにつれ、資金調達コストは引き締め効果のある水準で停滞している。4月の新規企業向けローンの平均金利は5.2％、新規住宅ローンの平均金利は3.8％と横ばいだった。

信用力は依然として弱い。4月の銀行による企業向け貸出の伸び率は年率0.3％で、前月から若干低下した。家計向けローンは年率0.2％の伸びを続けた。ブロード・マネー（M3で測定）の年間成長率は3月の0.9％から4月は1.3％に上昇した。

金融政策戦略に基づき、理事会は金融政策と金融の安定性の関連性を徹底的に評価した。ユーロ圏の銀行は依然として底堅い。経済見通しの改善は金融の安定を促進したが、地政学的リスクの高まりが先行きを不透明にしている。世界的な金融環境の予想外の引き締めは、金融資産および非金融資産の再評価を促し、経済全体に悪影響を及ぼす可能性がある。マクロプルーデンス政策は依然として、金融の脆弱性構築に対する第一の防衛線である。現在実施されている、あるいは間もなく発効する措置は、金融システムの弾力性を維持するのに役立っている。

結論

欧州中央銀行（ECB）理事会は本日、主要3金利を25bp引き下げることを決定した。我々は、インフレ率がタイムリーに2％の中期目標に戻ることを確実にすることを決定要因としている。我々は、この目標を達成するために必要な限り、政策金利を十分に引き締め効果を維持する。我々は、引き締め効果の適切な水準と期間を決定するために、データに依存し、会合ごとのアプローチに引き続き従う。特に、私たちの金利決定は、基調的な経済・金融データ、基調的なインフレ率の動態、金融政策の伝達の強さに照らしたインフレ見通しの評価に基づいて行われる。特定の金利パスをあらかじめ約束するわけではない。

いずれにせよ、我々は、インフレ率が中期目標に戻ることを確実にし、金融政策伝達の円滑な機能を維持するために、マンデートの範囲内であらゆる手段を調整する用意がある。

それでは、ご質問を承ります。

* * *

Q：インフレ見通しを引き上げると同時に利下げを行ったことについては、もう少し説明が必要かもしれません。もうひとつは、市場は現在、今年中に約65bpの利下げを予想しています。市場は正しいのか、それともほぼ正しいのか。

この場をお借りして、冒頭の答えと、今朝の決定に至る前段階として、私たちが今朝何をしたのか、何が起こったのかをお話しさせてください。今朝の会合は、Dデイから80周年にあたる今日、ノルマンディーの浜辺で犠牲となった多くの男女に敬意を表することから始まった。この犠牲と、その他多くの犠牲に対して敬意を表しました。なぜなら、この犠牲のおかげで、私たちは今日の地位を築くことができたのであり、非常に文化的な方法で意見を異にすることができたのであり、また、私たちの運営理事会の中で、それぞれの国の中央銀行を代表する20の異なる国籍の人々が、非常に調和的で和やかな意思決定を行うことができたからです。

 そして、そうすることは適切で完璧なことだった。そして、私たちは利下げを決定しました。利下げを決定したのは、この数ヶ月の間に、私たちの前途に対する自信が高まってきたからです。では、なぜ前途に対する確信が高まっているのか、ご説明しましょう。というのも、このような決断を下すのは何年ぶりかのことだからです。そして、このようなことは真空中では起こりません。

そこで、金融政策サイクルの話に少し戻りますが、私たちはこれまで2つの段階を経て、このような決定を下してきました。最初の段階は、ご記憶の通り、非常に強力で急速な引き締めの段階でした。2022年7月から2023年9月の間に450ベーシスポイント引き締めました。その後、2023年9月から今日まで据え置きの段階に移行しました。これらの段階を振り返ってみると、それぞれの段階でインフレ率を半分に割っています。インフレ率のピークを見ると、2022年10月には10.6％、平均で2桁のインフレ率でした。そして2023年9月には5.2%になった。そして今日、2.6％となっている。つまり、各段階において、私たちが再評価し、異なる方向に進むことを決定したとき、私たちはインフレ率を半減させたのです。

第二に、私たちが非常に考慮したのは、私たちの予測の信頼性と強さです。私たちの多くにとって、ある特別な予測がありました。2025年第4四半期の予測（9月、12月、3月、6月）を見ると、これらの予測の間には0.10％のばらつきがある。つまり、2か1.9か2か1.9か2ということだ。このような予測の信頼性、堅実性、堅牢性に基づいて、私たちは実際に利下げを決定したのです。

そうですね。「次回はどうするのですか」と聞かれるでしょうが、私は必ず同じことをお話しします。我々はデータに依存し、会合ごとに決定する。しかし、それだけでは十分ではないだろう。データをどのように収集するかも重要だが、それ以上に重要なのはデータをどのように分析するかだ。あるデータだけを指しているのではなく、私たちが得るすべてのデータを対象にしている。

私たちは3つの基準のプリズムの下でそれを見ている。この金融政策声明の中で、3つの基準を3回繰り返したことにお気づきだと思いますが、それは、私たちが収集した金融・経済データに基づくインフレ見通しです。それは、基調的なインフレ率であり、金融政策の伝達である。この3つの基準のもとで、私たちは入手可能なすべてのデータを分析します。そのためにはデータが必要です。適切な分析を行うために十分なデータが必要であり、それが今回の決定につながったのです。二つ目の質問については、市場は市場がすべきことをし、我々は我々がすべきことをする、ということです。

Q: あなたは今、決断を下すには十分なデータが必要だとおっしゃいましたが、3月の時点では、4月までにもう少し、6月までにもっと多くのことがわかるだろうとおっしゃっていました。私たちも同じような状況にあるのでしょうか？次の会議までにはもう少し、その次の会議までにはもっと多くのことがわかるのでしょうか？また、このトピックに関連して、一部の政策決定会合が重要指標の発表と重なるため、それらの政策決定会合がより重要であるという意見もあります。あなたの見解をどう思われますか？同じ意見ですか？

私たちの会合や決定と特定のデータの発表が完璧に同期しているわけではないことはその通りです。というのも、私たちはあらゆる分析可能性から賃金を注意深く見ており、CPEは関連するポイントだからです。それだけではありません。賃金は分析が必要な重要なデータ分野ですが、CPEはその一つであり、明日発表されるだけです。ですから、私たちがやろうとしていることは、その舞台裏を少しお見せしますと、入手可能な限りのデータを集めることです。現時点では、約15カ国、ユーロ圏経済の非常に大きな部分を対象としています。そして、私たちの決意をよりよく評価し、テストするために、その数字の可能性を計算します。それが私たちがやらなければならないことであり、公表される日付と金融政策決定会合の日付は完璧に同期しているわけではありません。また、両者は常に一致するわけではありません。

どのようなデータについて話しているのかという質問もありました。まず第一に、データです。第二に、今申し上げた3つの基準の下で行う分析が実際に適切なものとなるような十分なデータです。ですから、今これをやるか、あるいは別の時点で別のことをやるかについては、今日お話しするつもりはありませんし、夏のずっと後まで、どの時点でもお話しするつもりはありません。ただひとつ申し上げたいのは、十分なデータが必要だということです。ディスインフレ路線が確認され、さらなる決定が必要であるという私たちの見解を実際に裏付けるには、十分なデータが必要なのです。

Q: ECBが最近、保有の段階からさまざまな段階を経たとおっしゃいました。本日の利下げで、3月のECBウォッチャー会議での講演でおっしゃっていた利下げの段階に入ったのでしょうか？一連の利下げを期待すべきでしょうか、それとも今回の利下げで終了となるのでしょうか。2つ目の質問：チーフエコノミストは最近、今年も金利は引き締め効果を維持する必要があるが、ECBは最高水準の制限を撤廃したいと考えていると述べました。それはどういう意味ですか？引き締め効果が十分でなくなる前に、ECBはどの程度金利を利下げできるのでしょうか。

まず最初に、私のスピーチを観測してくださった方、あるいは会場に足を運んでくださった方に感謝します。それは「監視者たち」のスピーチで、私はある種の展望的な、しかし漠然とした学問的な方法で、私たちが経験した段階を暫定的に分析し、次に何が起こりうるかを予想した。今日、私たちは "ダイアルバック "の段階に入っているのだろうか？私はそうは思わない。なぜなら、申し上げたように、我々は道を歩んでいるという確信に基づいて決断しているからだ。しかし、今後数ヶ月の間、どの時点においても、我々はデータを必要とし、さらにデータを分析し、我々がディスインフレの道を歩んでいることを常に確認する必要がある。目的地はわかっている。方向性はわかっている。適用する手法もわかっている。私たちが受け取るべき複数のデータの量も分かっており、それが蓄積され、うまくいけば裏付けとなる。 

しかし、それが現在進行中のダイアルバックプロセスであることを確認することはできない。その可能性は高いが、それはデータに依存するものであり、非常に不確かなのは、我々が移動するスピードとそれにかかる時間である。繰り返しますが、これは我々が受け取るデータによって決定されます。 

引き締め効果について質問されました。ご承知のように、25ベーシス・ポイントの利下げ後も、現在のところ引き締め効果を発揮しています。実質金利の面では、9月当時よりも引き締め効果が高まっています。ですから、チーフエコノミストのフィリップ・レーンが指摘したように、私たちがここで行っているのは、ある程度の引き締め効果を取り除くことです。引き締め効果を緩和しているのです。まさに今、私たちがやっていることです。どのくらいの時間がかかるのでしょうか？申し上げたように、今は申し上げられません。どのくらいのスピードで実現するのか？それも今は言えない。データによってもたらされるでしょう。私の優秀な同僚たちの見解も聞けるでしょう。そのような時間がかかるとか、そのようなスピードで進むとか。

私は、ある単純な理由から、そのような結論にならないよう注意したい。我々は道を歩んでいますが、その道には別のでこぼこがあることも知っています。前回、私たちが一緒にいたとき、私たちは2％に向かって下る道を旅していると言ったが、道にはでこぼこがあるだろう。多かれ少なかれ、予測できるでこぼこはある。ベースエフェクトはその一例だ。しかし、予想外のでこぼこもある。予測はできても、その大きさについては確信が持てないでこぼこもある。賃金もそのひとつだ。どの国を見るか、どの労働協約を見るかによって、大量の遅れを取り戻すことがあるかもしれない。賃上げを前面に打ち出した協約があっても、それが消えてしまうこともある。そのため、これらすべてには特有な特徴があり、実際に私たちが検討しているのと同じレベルのでこぼこを増加させたり、減少させたり、実現させたりすることになる。しかし、その道のりは険しい。正直に言おう、今後数カ月はでこぼこ道が続くだろう。それは分かっている。

Q: まず、あなたはデータの重要性について話し、この会議の前に第1四半期のデータ、特に賃金データの重要性を強調していました。しかし、減速は見られなかった。賃金データは加速し、ほぼ過去最高を記録しました。では、なぜ利下げに踏み切ったのでしょうか？第二に、あなたは今年後半にユーロ圏の賃金が緩やかになると予測しています。再び利下げを行う前に、その緩和が実際に起こるのを確認する必要があるのでしょうか？

繰り返しになりますが、決断を下す前に私たちが望んだのは、決断を下すために必要なディスインフレのリズムが今後の道を歩んでいるという確信度を高めることでした。そのために、前回9月の利上げを振り返り、2023年9月から現在までの道のりを評価しました。前回の回答で申し上げたように、我々はディスインフレの道を歩んでいます。私たちは賃金だけでなく、複数のデータを見ていくつもりです。というのも、逼迫する労働市場において賃金は非常に重要だからです。そして、サービス業が指数の項目の重要な要素であり、それが上昇していることも知っています。前回のサービス業は3.7でした。それは4月のことだった。その前の3月、2月、1月と4が続いた後、5月には4.1に上昇した。サービス価格の上昇の根底にあるのは主に賃金である。

では、ここ数ヶ月で賃金に何が起こったのか？まず第一に、国によってばらつきがある。というのも、いくつかの決定は国ごとに異なるからです。一例を挙げましょう： ドイツです。ドイツでは、労働協約のほとんどが2～3年ごとに交渉される。より具体的な例を挙げると、公務員の労働協約は2024年に締結され、公務員の労働協約が最後に締結された2021年以降に失われた購買力を補っています。ですから、2024年に結ばれた協定が、2021年、2022年、2023年に失われた購買力を補うことになれば、その規模は非常に大きくなることは想像に難くありません。 小売部門についてもまったく同じ話があり、これは非常に重要なことだが、ここでもまた3年前と比べると喝采を浴びるような合意に達している。

次に、その下にあるものを分析しなければならない。キャッチアップとフロントローディングがある。また、将来を見据えたものなのだろうか？公共サービスではあまり明確ではありませんが、小売部門の協定では非常に明確です。ということは、賃金は今後も上昇し続けるということになる。交渉賃金を見ると、第1四半期は4.7％だった。従業員一人当たりの報酬を15カ国の基準で計算すると、4.7％でした。第4四半期の交渉賃金が4.5％であったのに対して、第4四半期の従業員一人当たりの報酬は4.7％で、安定しています。

第3の指標である賃金トラッカーには、ユーロ圏の7カ国が含まれています。つまり、欧州の経済活動と労働市場の非常に大きな部分をカバーしています。賃金トラッカーが教えてくれるのは、賃金トラッカーが記録している協定やさまざまな合意のストックは依然として高い水準にある一方で、（昨年からの）フロー、つまり現在入ってきているものを見ると、賃金の伸びは低下しているということです。賃金は多くの要素を含んでいるため、簡単な問題ではない。キャッチアップ、社会保険料、私たちが賃金ドリフトと呼んでいるもの、残業代、低賃金と高賃金の従業員間の格差など、非常に具体的な項目がたくさん含まれています。だから私たちは、これらすべてのデータと情報を組み合わせて分析するようにしている。その結果、賃金は依然として高い水準にありますが、それは間違いなく、我々は賃金が低下する道を歩んでいるという結論に達しました。

2024年に決定した12％が2025年に同じインパクトを生むことはないだろうからだ。なぜなら、2024年に決定された12％は2025年には同じ影響をもたらさないからです。そして、この特別な予測は、ECBのスタッフと各国の中央銀行のスタッフが共同でチェックし、クロスチェックして作成したものであり、労働協約と従業員一人当たりの報酬を本当によく把握しているという事実によって、さらに慰められると思います。ご質問の第2は、どれくらいの時間がかかるのか、あるいは、あとどれくらいかかるのか、ということでした。データが入り次第、見ていくつもりです。賃金と利益については、毎月のことではありません。別の間隔で入ってくる。また、2024年末にかけて賃金が低下し、2025年には賃金の上昇が深刻化するという私たちの想定を、今後数週間、数ヶ月の間に検証する必要があります。

Q：前の質問に続きますが、今後、より多くのデータが必要になることを考えると、予想会議が金利決定により適していると思いますか？2つ目の質問は、金利の将来パスについて、理事会でどの程度意見が分かれているかということです。3つ目は、今日の決定が全会一致であったかどうか？

2 つ以上は無理だが、OK、3 つにしよう。まず3つ目から。満場一致でしたか？はい、でもガバナーが1人でした。それが誰であるかは、あなたの慧眼にお任せします。我々は道を歩んでいますが、その道筋はデータに依存するものであり、会合ごとに決めるという点では一致しており、その点では反対意見はまったくありませんでした。また、インフレ見通し、基調的なインフレ率、金融政策トランスミッションの強さという3つの基準が、今後も我々のデータ分析の原動力となることを確認しました。 

最初のご質問ですが、まず第一に、これは我々の予測ではありません。スタッフの予測です。そして、スタッフが定期的に発表する予測が非常に有益であることは明らかであり、私たちが入手したデータを深く掘り下げ、じっくりと分析し、シナリオや分析、感度分析を作成し、私たちが意思決定を行う上で非常に役立っています。しかし、だからといって、予想会議の時だけ決めればいいということではありません。常にデータに依存しなければならないからだ。しかし、予想会議を開くときには、より多くのデータを得ることができるのは明らかだ。

Q：何ヶ月か前、あなたはこの場所に立って、ユーロ圏の人々に「運営理事会はインフレの首を折ることを決定要因としている」と約束していました。その首は折れたと言えますか？現在のデータやあなたの予測を見て、疑問を抱く人もいるでしょう。あなたの見解をお聞かせください。それに関連して、今回の利下げが本当に適切な時期に行われたのかどうか、多くの批判が会期前に聞かれました。現在、欧州議会の投票が始まっていますが、ご存知のように、欧州機関に対する批判が多くあります。欧州中央銀行（ECB）はもうインフレ対策に十分真剣に取り組んでいないという印象を持つ人もいる中で、このような決定を下すのは本当に適切な時期なのでしょうか。

私たちはインフレとの闘いを極めて真剣に取り組んでいると断言できます。この仕事で学んだことがあるとすれば、私たちは粘り強く、決断要因を持ち、データに依存しなければならないが、目的をあきらめることはできないということだ。私たちの目標は、インフレを抑制し、中期的にインフレ率を2％に戻すことです。ですから、インフレを抑制し、物価の安定を取り戻すという私たちの決意に疑いの余地はありません。眠れない夜、私は頭の片隅にこの数字を置くようにしている。そして、「続けろ、続けろ」と言う小さな声がある。2022年10月のユーロ圏の平均インフレ率は10.6％だった。それから1年も経たない2023年9月のインフレ率は5.2％だった。これは8月の観測値である。現在のインフレ率は2.6％です。我々はすべての段階でインフレ率を2で割っていた。2.6を2で割ると1.3になってしまうからだ。私たちのコミットメントは2％です。しかし、金融政策声明にはっきりと書かれているように、私たちは引き締め効果を緩やかにしています。まだ引き締め効果はあります。そして、インフレ率をタイムリーに2％に引き上げるために必要な限り、引き締め効果を継続します。そのことに疑いはありません。

質問：スペインの銀行における集中度について、またBBVAがサバデルの買収に成功した場合、この集中度についてどう思われますか？競争や金融の安定にとって問題となる可能性はありますか？

ルイス・デ・ギンドス副頭取：それに関しては、はっきりと明言してきたと思います。まだ確定していない取引や案件について、詳しく説明したりコメントしたりすることはありません。私たちの党の方針は非常に明確です。私たちは、合併や銀行持分の取得を伴うあらゆる種類の取引について評価を行いますが、この評価はプルデンシャルとソルベンシーの問題に基づいて行われます。それが今言えることです。そして、最終的には結果を見ることになるでしょう。

Q：現在、中立金利がどの程度にあるのか、もう少し明確に教えてください。第二に、利下げに賛成していなかった総裁は、より大きな利下げを求めていたのでしょうか、それとも据え置きで利下げを続けていたのでしょうか？また、その議論はどのようなものだったのでしょうか？

その質問に対する答えはノーだ。なぜなら、それは特定の人物に関係する範囲での審議のプライバシーに関わるからだ。しかし、あなたはすぐにその人物を特定し、彼からその情報を得ることができるだろう。

より深刻なのは、中立金利についてですが、私が特定の数字に偏ったり、中立金利や中立金利周辺の範囲を特定したりすることを組織的に控えていることはご存じでしょう。コロナウイルス（コロナ19）以前に比べて中立金利が上昇しているのであれば、中立金利から遠く離れていることもわかる。また、DFRが4%から3.75%になったことで、中立金利には近づいていない。まだ道半ばです。

Q: 私はユーロ圏に最近加盟したクロアチアから来ました。クロアチアの5月のインフレ率は4.3％でベルギーに次いで2位でしたが、その一方で前期は3.9％とユーロ圏で最大の成長率を記録しました。今日の決定によって、私たちにリスクはあるのでしょうか？また、どう予想しますか？ユーロ圏のすべての国に影響を与える決定を下して、インフレ率が本当に下がることを期待するのは難しい。

まず最初に、この輪にようこそ。クロアチアが加わり、輪が20に広がったことを大変嬉しく思います。今回のご質問は、特にバルト三国がユーロ圏の平均インフレ率よりもはるかに高いインフレ率で推移していた頃のご質問と似ています。ファンダメンタルズの違い、伝統の違い、構造的な硬直性の違いから、ユーロ圏には乖離があるのです。ECBの立場からすれば、ユーロ圏のデータを見なければならず、特殊性にまで踏み込むことはできない。私たちは乖離に留意する必要があり、こうした乖離を明らかにし、各国がどの程度接近しているかを示すコンバージェンス・レポートを発行しています。インフレ率は低下し、このディスインフレ・プロセスは継続され、すべての加盟国に適用されると確信しています。しかし、繰り返しになりますが、各国間のペースと一貫性は常に問題です。あまり大きな問題にならないことを願っている。また、成長と旺盛な需要には、メリットだけでなくデメリットもある。

Q：フランスのエマニュエル・マクロン大統領は、ECBのマンデートを経済成長と気候保護に拡大することを提案しています。それについてあなたの見解は？また、イザベル・シュナーベルが提案したドット・プロット（点描画）の公表についても、私の見解をお聞かせください。この案に賛成ですか、反対ですか。

ECBには非常に明確なマンデートがあり、そのマンデートは条約に明記されています。ECBは、物価安定のマンデートが金融政策戦略の確かな指針と境界を示していると考えています。それを変更する必要性も能力もありません。また、物価の安定を提供し、持続可能な投資に予測可能性を与えることは、気候変動との闘いに関連して私たちができるさまざまな貢献のひとつであることも確かです。私たちは、リスクマネジャーから、より良いモデリング、気候変動リスクとその緩和策を業務に含めるなど、さまざまな行動をとっています。しかし、物価の安定を提供することは、持続可能なプロジェクトに投資する投資家に対して、物価の安定があり、ECBが物価の安定を保証することを伝える良い方法であることは確かです。インフレの波ほど、長期的な視点と後々のリターンを必要とする投資を思いとどまらせるものはない。ドット・プロット・メカニズムは興味深い概念である。