We're looking at the same things and asking ourselves the same questions. I think we both need to feel confident that we're clearly back on a path to 2% before it would be appropriate to reduce interest rates. Last week in Canada, we held our policy rate at 5%, where it's been since last summer. We did stress that we are encouraged by the recent progress we've seen on inflation and we want to see it sustained. And just this morning, Statistics Canada published the March CPI. As expected, headline inflation came in close to 3%. We have seen gas prices in both our countries move up. Importantly though, measures of core inflation did tick down again and that does suggest that underlying inflationary pressures are continuing to ease. So we continue to be moving in the right direction. The other thing I want to underline is that in the conduct of monetary policy, we do spend a lot of time looking and understanding what is going on in the United States. U.S. economy has a very big impact on the Canadian economy. We also watch the U.S. economy closely, particularly through the extraordinary period we've all been through in the last few years, because the more we understand what we have in common and our differences, the better we can learn from each other's experience. And let me just close on a few words on just how integrated the Canadian U.S. economy is. And Randy, you highlighted some of the key facts. I would totally share your perspective. I think the economic relationship really is the model for mutually beneficial open trade and investment. Seventy-seven percent of Canadian exports flow to the United States. As you underlined, what less people know is that Canada is the United States' biggest export market. Seventeen percent, or as you said, almost 20 percent of U.S. goods head north to Canada. If you look at foreign direct investment, there is a similar two-way dynamic. In 2022, more than half of Canadian FDI went to the United States, by far the largest share of our FDI. That was roughly $43 billion. In the same year, $50 billion of U.S. FDI came to Canada. So it's a pretty balanced relationship. And I think what these numbers underline is just how close that economic relationship is and how it works in both directions. And the final thing I'll say is when you look forward, we face many of the same structural challenges. Our labor forces are aging. There's going to be a big challenge with new technology, training, and making sure we have the skilled workers our economies needs. Climate change is affecting both our economies. We're both grappling with shifting trade and investment patterns globally. Supply chains across both our countries need to build more resilience. Conflicts internationally are increasing global uncertainty. And for all these reasons, I am very glad we're having this discussion. We do have much in common. And, Randy, as you underlined, when we work together, we can get a lot more done. Thank you. Thanks. That's a great place to start. Chairman Powell, really interested in hearing your perspective. Another place to start is to say, why don't you call me Jay and call Tiffany? Okay, I know I do it behind the scenes. I'll do it in front of the scenes, too. Great. So let me start by thanking Randy and Bill and Javi and Tiff for this. It's great to be here today. I want to echo what Randy said about the mutually beneficial, respectful, great relationship we have with Canada economically, culturally. And I'd also like to echo-I thought Tiff did a great job talking about the similarities and differences in our economy, our financial markets, the challenges we face in our policy stance. It's almost as though you somehow had a copy of that part of my remarks, Tiff. So I'm not going to repeat that. But what I will do is talk, if I could, a little bit about the U.S. economy and where we find ourselves right now. So, as I think Randy pointed out, the performance of the U.S. economy over the past year has really been quite strong. We had growth of more than 3 percent last year as rebounding supply supported both robust growth and in spending and also employment, alongside a considerable decline in inflation. The more recent data show solid growth and continued strength in the labor market, but also a lack of further progress so far this year on returning to our 2 percent inflation goal. So I'll say a little bit about our two mandate goals, maximum employment and price stability. As I mentioned, the labor market remains very strong. Payroll job gains have been strong over the first quarter, averaging just a tick above 275,000 per month. The unemployment rate has been below 4 percent for 26 consecutive months, which hasn't happened in more than a half a century, the longest streak of its kind. Strong demand for workers has been met by a substantial increase in the workforce due both to rising labor force participation and a substantial increase in immigration, as indeed Canada has experienced as well. So even with this strength, by many measures, our labor market has been moving into better balance over the past year. The ratio of job openings to unemployed workers was extremely elevated in 2021 and 2022 has now moved back down to levels just above the pre-pandemic era. Surveys of workers and businesses indicate a normalizing labor market. So do the rates of both quits and hires, and broader wage pressures also continue to moderate, albeit gradually. So the overall picture for the labor market is one of real strength but gradual normalization. Turning to price stability, our inflation mandate. Inflation, of course, declined quite significantly over the second half of last year, over the whole year, but particularly in the second half. But 12-month core PCE inflation, which is one of the most important things we look at, is estimated to have been little changed in March over February at 2.8 percent, and the three- and six-month measures of inflation are actually above that level. So we've said at the FOMC that we'll need greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent before it would be appropriate to ease policy. You know, we took that cautious approach and sought that greater confidence so as not to overreact to the string of low-inflation readings that we had in the second half of last year. The recent data have clearly not given us greater confidence and instead indicate that it's likely to take longer than expected to achieve that confidence. That said, we think policy is well-positioned to handle the risks that we face. If higher inflation does persist, we can maintain the current level of restriction for as long as needed. At the same time, we have significant space to ease should the labor market unexpectedly weaken. Right now, given the strength of the labor market and progress on inflation so far, it's appropriate to allow restrictive policy further time to work and let the data and the evolving outlook guide us. Come what may, we remain strongly committed to returning inflation over time sustainably to 2 percent. Well, thank you. I think that's a really important frame for our discussion today. One of the things that I remarked on when I first got into public life was how often I saw my international peers as we moved around, and when I see the two of you on stage together, I know that often you see each other at G7, at G20 meetings, and I think it would be quite interesting for the audience to understand, you know, how collaboration happens or doesn't happen internationally, how central banks work together or don't work together. So, you know, maybe I could ask you, Jay, to give a perspective on how that happens from your vantage point. Sure. So to give you an idea, we do meet quite regularly. So Tiff and I attend two G7 meetings per year for ministers-that's finance ministers and central bank governors. We don't attend the leaders meeting in the United States, but we attend the meetings with the finance ministers, which Bill was, and also two G20 meetings. So that's two-that's four meetings per year right there. We also have six meetings at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel. One of those is now virtual, but we're in-and that's only central bankers, no finance ministries. So it's all central banking stuff. You know, it's economics, it's financial regulation, all those things. We also come here to Washington, or every third year we go someplace else, twice a year for the IMF World Bank meetings, which is kind of what everybody's doing in Washington right now. It's a lot of meetings. What do we do at these meetings? Fair question. Essentially, we, the central bankers, are having an ongoing conversation about what's going on in their own economies, in their own financial markets, their own regulatory world with each other. And we're also talking about the big global issues of the day, as you would expect, some of which are really the business of the elected government, not the business of the central bankers. But we have that discussion. It's more or less ongoing. We're seeing each other all the time. They're very informative, these discussions. And they really are, for me anyway, part of the way that I get to thinking about what the right policy is for the United States, is to hear what is going on around the world, what's happening globally, and how are people thinking about that. So it's very, very useful. Particularly, though, given our close-storing price stability, by all matching our words with forceful action, raising rates rapidly. We all helped each other. I mean, it helped reduce global inflation in goods, which was really the first part of the inflation surge, and it helped keep inflation expectations in all our countries better anchored. And I think it is a key ingredient in how we have all managed to get inflation down a long way back without causing recessions in our economies. And the last point I'll just highlight is something you said. Occasionally, this coordination is very explicit. So for example, at the time of the global financial crisis, there was a coordinated G7 interest rate cut. I remember clearly because it happened at three o'clock in the morning in Canada, which was a little bit of a technical challenge. But most of the time, it's not explicit coordination, but it is those conversations, it is that shared information. We have similar objectives, similar goals, similar tools, and we're sharing information, and that leads to a coordinated response. Well, maybe you could spend a little bit more time on that from the Canada-U.S. perspective. So Randy mentioned in his opening comments the idea that when you're in Canada, you're living next to an elephant. And I think a lot of Canadians would assume that Canadian policy has to take into account U.S. policy. So maybe could you give us a perspective into how important that is for your deliberations and how that factors into decision-making, the U.S. approach? Well, look, I think it's pretty clear. Our U.S. economic relationship is by far our most important relationship. Our economies are highly integrated. Thirty-five percent of our GDP is exports, and 75 percent of that goes to the United States. So that's a big chunk of our GDP. Our financial markets are also very integrated. In fact, yesterday I was in New York, and when you go to New York, you are just reminded how integrated our markets are. I was at the New York Stock Exchange, and all over are cross-listed Canadian companies on many of the screens. Our financial systems are very integrated. Our banks have – most of our large banks have operations in the United States. Our pension funds are big investors in the United States. So we do spend a lot of time understanding what's going on – trying to understand what's going on in the United States and looking at the implications for Canada. There are, though – I highlighted in my opening remarks some differences. Another important difference I didn't focus on is both our economies have big manufacturing sectors, big service sectors, large commodity sectors, but the commodity sector in the Canadian economy is quite a bit bigger than it is in the United States – oil and gas, agriculture, forestry, mining, fishing. It's 40 percent of our exports, 13 percent of our GDP. And the commodity cycle can be quite different, and we have a flexible exchange rate. That does help absorb the differences, and I think it's an important reason why historically sometimes our monetary policies do differ. Our cycles are often quite similar, and certainly through COVID we had a similar shock and a pretty similar cycle, and our monetary policy has been quite similar. There have been other episodes, though, where particularly if the commodity cycle is different, you'll see monetary policy diverge somewhat from the United States. There are limits to how far it can diverge, but as I emphasized, we have our own currency, we have a flexible exchange rate, and that allows – that absorbs the differences to allow us to gear monetary policy to what we need to do in Canada. And Jay, from your perspective, obviously the U.S. has an outsized role in the global economy, and I guess we'd be interested in understanding how much time do you deliberate on what your actions will have as reactions, and how much do you think about what's happening with global markets as you come to your conclusions? So I'll start by saying that each central bank serves a domestic mandate, which is – in the case of the Fed, it is using our tools to achieve maximum employment and price stability for the benefit of the people we serve. So it's a domestic mandate. But in the case of the United States, we fully realize and appreciate that our decisions can have significant effects on – not just on Canada, but on – or Mexico, but on countries around the world. And that's all the more so because the dollar is the reserve – principal reserve currency which strengthens the transmission of our policy through the global economy. So we also know that those effects, effects on global demand from our policy changes, can have an effect on the United States as well, that can rebound to the United States. So we're very, very aware of all of that. And for one thing, we try to be very transparent and predictable given the flow of data and events. I mean, you have to move quickly some times, but we do realize we have a special obligation to be predictable and transparent, and that that benefits us in doing that as well. So international spillovers, of course, are an important consideration. We do track that. Ultimately, though, we think over time the most important thing we can do to support the global economy is to deliver on our mandate of price stability and maximum employment here in the United States. And is that – have there been changes in this current cycle that have driven any differences? I mean, you've talked about the different drivers for inflation this go-around from previous periods of inflation. So do you think about it differently as you approach these things? Yeah, well, specifically on inflation, I do think this is different. This is not simply the more standard case of overheated demand, which has been the typical thing in the post-war era for the U.S. economy and other major Western economies. There are similarities and differences, and I would characterize it this way, that the inflation that arose suddenly really in the early part of 2021 as economies reopened resulted both from constrained supply and also elevated and rechanneled demand from services to goods. So if you remember – and I'm sure will – there were unexpected widespread shortages and supply chain failures on a scale not seen in recent memory. In the U.S., several million people had left the labor force, creating a severe labor shortage that was more fully felt once the economy reopened, leading to a huge spike in wages, but also in the ratio of job openings to unemployed workers. So very unusual situation. Households had elevated levels of savings, and demand was very, very strong as well. So we thought – what's different is we thought – have thought since we've understood the situation that restoring price stability would require both the unwinding of the pandemic-related distortions to both supply and demand, as well as the effects of tight monetary policy on demand, which would give the supply side time and space to recover. And we think today that we're seeing those two things working together to bring that end about. And you saw that, I think, in 2023, which was really in a large way a supply side story. What happened was the supply side really recovered in 2023. We thought that it would recover in 2021. And in 2022, I was beginning to lose hope. And then in 2023, you saw the shortages and the issues with the trade pipelines not fully resolved, but largely resolved. You saw the U.S. labor force shortage alleviated by both higher participation among people who had dropped out of the workforce, but also from immigration. So that was the year of the supply side recovery. And you saw the core inflation rates drop by two full percentage points in the face of very strong growth. So that can only be explained by the enormous increase in potential output, the supply side increase over that year. So that's how I would say it's different this time. And Tiff, maybe you can tell us how it's different in other ways in Canada. So we-you know, we're talking about the similarities and the similar approaches to dealing with inflation and the-you know, the positive results. But we've seen a divergence in Canada with respect to growth. So clearly, there's some differences, too. Maybe-can you reflect for people what those differences look like and what the ramifications are for you? Yeah, I will focus on the differences, although I will stress I would-I think the main story is the similarities. And as Jay outlined, what is so unique about this whole cycle is that supply has played a much bigger role than we're used to. And from a monetary policy perspective, we don't have as good line of sight to supply as we do as demand, and we don't have any tools to influence supply. Our tools work on demand. In terms of what has been different, if you look at the Canadian economy, growth was essentially zero in the second half of last year. And what that meant was the economy, which was very overheated, supply caught up with demand, in fact, it more than caught up with demand. The economy moved into excess supply, and we're now seeing the effects of that in terms of relieving price pressure. So, you know, why did demand slow more in Canada and the United States? I think that is a difficult question. I pointed to a couple of things in my opening remarks. I think productivity growth in the United States has been a lot stronger. You've gotten more supply than we have, so you've been able to grow more with less inflation or less inflationary pressure. And then the second thing is I think monetary policy is having more traction in Canada because the structure of our mortgage markets, half of mortgages have renewed in Canada. And even if your mortgage hasn't renewed, it's renewing in the next couple of years probably, so you're thinking ahead, thinking, oh, when it renews, I'm going to have to be paying a lot more on my mortgage every month, so maybe I should be saving more money now. So we're seeing that effect. We've had weaker consumption growth, and certainly that's been somewhat masked by the fact we've had very rapid population growth. But if you look on a per capita basis, you can see household spending per capita, per family, has actually gone down, even though growth has not been negative overall. I think moving forward, we are actually seeing growth starting to pick up. The first quarter of this year looks pretty strong. We'll probably see some choppiness quarter to quarter, but overall we think that that strength we're seeing in the first quarter will be sustained through the year. We think on a quarterly basis growth is going to be averaging about 2 percent per quarter through this year. That's partly what we expect to see. We're starting to see some pickup in consumption. Partly it is the resilience of the U.S. economy that is supporting our exports. They've been very resilient. And then coming back to inflation, I think those – broadly speaking, the path of inflation is pretty similar, but you are seeing, I think, some of those differences in the dynamics of the real economy in inflation. You know, our last few inflation readings have been reasonably good, even though total is still close to 3. Core has been, you know, the last few times ticking down. And if you look at the more timely three-month measures of core inflation, there is some downward momentum in underlying inflation, and I think that reflects the fact the economy is in excess supply, and that is relieving those price pressures. We're certainly looking for evidence that that's going to be sustained. That's what we're looking for right now. Well, I know that both of you realize that one of the key things we were trying to emphasize today was the importance of the Canada-U.S. relationship, and I also really appreciate all of the comments on the importance of trade to our – to both of our economies, trade between our two countries, and foreign direct investment. And so while you're not trade policy experts, and I get that your organization's – that's not the focus, I really appreciate you giving us a little sense of, you know, how do you think about trade in economic terms and the importance of that, and how that factors into your economic outlook. And specifically, we're thinking about the importance of the agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico, and wondering how you think about that in terms of its impacts on trade in general, on labor markets, on supply. So maybe I could ask you, Jay, to give us any reflections you might have on that and deliberations' impacts. So I guess I need to start by saying we don't do trade policy, we don't really comment on trade policy, other than to say that it's clear that we have a mutually beneficial, large, substantial, ongoing, healthy trade relationship with Canada that we very much welcome. Maybe I'll add one more thing, which is I want to focus on a particular export of Canada that I think somehow we just desperately need here in the United States, and we can't get enough of it, and that is Canadian comedians and comic actors. I started to count the number of really great, funny people, and I limited myself to 10. So Jim Carrey, Martin Short, John Candy, Mike Myers, Norm MacDonald, Rick Moranis, Dan Aykroyd, Catherine O'Hara, and Andrea Martin. And I could go on. So something's going on up there. Americans love Canadian – if that's Canadian humor, we absolutely love it. So send more. We can't get enough of it. That's a small but important part of our trading relationship, I guess. Tiff, all jokes aside, any comments from your perspective? Yeah, well, first of all, as Jay underlined, we don't set trade policy. But let me just say – try to give you more of a picture. I mean, first of all, you just look at our two countries. The east-west border is the longest border in the world, and it's a long way across Canada. So it often makes a lot more sense to trade north-south than to trade across the country. And that's really – it comes down to geography in some sense. I mean, that's fundamental to the inner ties we have across our countries. Many Canadians are closer to fellow Americans than they are to fellow Canadians, just the nature of the geography. You look at – what are the things that we buy and sell? Well, some of the biggest things – in Canada, we buy a lot of your consumer goods in the United States. We have a very two-way relationship on motor vehicles. You buy a lot of the motor vehicles we produce. We buy a lot of cars and trucks that you produce. Similarly, energy. We're both energy producers. It often makes more sense to trade the energy north-south than to ship it across the country. So we have a very dynamic two-way energy relationship. And you look forward and you look at – you think about how much electricity the world's going to need. I expect that relationship is only going to grow. Another element that is growing quickly – and maybe that's partly comedians – is the fastest-growing part of trade is trade and services. Now, if you want a haircut, you still have to do it in your own country, unless you want to go to New York to get a really fancy one. But increasingly, a lot of services are highly tradable. The internet has completely changed how many things are delivered. And so you're seeing – Canadians are increasingly importing a lot of commercial services from the United States. And then the final thing I'll say is on USMCA, obviously, for both countries, the market access is key. The other thing I would underline, though, it's also the certainty about the market access, the certainty that American companies have that they'll have access to Canadian markets and Canadians will have access to American markets. That allows businesses to make investments, to deploy their risk capital, to commit to the future. And it's that certainty of access that is really key to building investment. I'll stop there. Thank you. Well, I'd like to thank both of you for taking some time with all of us. I think if we had looked back a couple of years ago and reflected on what we were thinking back then might be the trajectory of our economies, we probably wouldn't have had an expectation that we would have been where we are today. We would have expected more challenges than we've faced. And I think we need to recognize that the stewardship that the Federal Reserve in the United States and the Bank of Canada in Canada have been responsible for has made an enormous difference in citizens' lives. I mean, we're in a situation that is virtually our best-case scenario. So it's probably not often enough that on stage you're recognized for that important work, and I want to thank both of you for all that you're doing for all of us in making that the reality. And also I want to thank you for taking some time here. I mean, we are reflecting on the fact that in a couple of years the U.S.-Mexico-Canadian trade agreement will be looked at again, and we want to reinforce the importance of working together, the importance of collaboration and cooperation, and really great trading relationships. So this is an important way for us to start this off, seeing the collegiality between the two of you, knowing how well people work together is really important for people. So thank you very much, and I know it's a busy week for you, so we appreciate also taking the time during this busy week. So thank you. Thank you. From the Canada Institute, I'm going to ask Xavier Delgado to close off our session today. Thank you, Bill. That concludes today's program, everybody. Thank you all, everybody in the room and online, for joining us today. I also want to give a thanks to our very esteemed panelists and our co-chairs, as well as the Canada Institute director, Christopher Sands, whose vision we are all lucky enough to execute on here. Folks, we're going to ask that you stay seated while the panelists depart the stage, but just one last time, this has been the launch of the Washington Forum on the Canadian Economy. Thank you all very much for joining us. One last round of applause for our panelists, please. Thank you.