*********Thanks, it's great to be here Andrew Thank you, you know Most of the interviews that you do people talk directly specifically and start about the economy people actually rarely I have found Try to find out about you and who you are and how this all happened and how you feel About all of this and so before we get into anything economic I just I just want to get personal With you because as I said, you know, there's a lot of powerful people in the world. A lot of them come on this stage There are presidents. There are CEOs. There are billionaires who are powerful, but in many ways uniquely You have a power that others do not and I'm so very curious as a human how that power sits with you Well, first of all, it's great to be here. Thanks for having me. I guess I would say that I I really love the work that I do and that's that's the main thing. I like my job. I love my job It's a great honor to do it The work is incredibly interesting all the time and I work at an institution full of highly talented people Who are committed to public service? We know that the things that we do really matter for Everybody, you know people and companies and so I get enormous satisfaction about that and I you know There's a fair amount of responsibility. But do you think about people who run large organizations? It probably feels very much the same Even when you can just change the dial and it changes everything so I've been at the Fed for almost 13 years and I've been chair for six and a half years and I'm kind of used to the work that we do and and the way we do it and all that and so I again I Don't experience it as difficult and unpleasant Although you know, it can it can certainly be that but I just feel I feel lucky to do it And I basically enjoy the work a great deal. Okay, so explain let's just go back in time though Just to explain a little bit to everybody about how this happened. It didn't just happen to you It's something that you wanted you graduated from Princeton After Princeton, by the way, you went to Europe from what I've read now you have a guitar. Yeah You were playing music in Paris including the song. I'm so lonesome. I could cry Could you still play that song? That's not a hard song to play. I could I could play that song I I can't sing it very did you make money doing this? No, no, never people pay me to stop actually and then you come back to the States and You become a lawyer then you go to Dylan Dylan Reed. Yeah, and When you're at Dylan Reed, which was an investment bank just to date the world here no longer with us It's been merged into a whole bunch of other places since then You had a boss named Nick Brady Nicholas Brady who later on by the way becomes the Treasury Secretary, but I'm curious You're sitting there at this bank and It was at this bank that you knew that you wanted to do Something in public service actually when I was in college I I'm not one of those very mature kids who came out with a plan. I really had one thought I'd grown up in Washington DC. My family was not part of the government and those elite circles, but I I had this thought that I wanted to have a life which was mostly in the private sector But then to do public service from time to time and I had people like Cyrus Vance and George Shultz Some of you may remember in mind people like that who had great private sector careers That was the only idea that I had and so one day at Dylan Reed I was I forced myself to get up and walk up the stairs and and knock on Nick Brady's Giant office, which seemed to me like the Palace of Versailles at the time given my I was working in a broom closet at the time And say Nick if you do anything in Washington, he would you know, he's a former US senator He was close to former President George HW Bush if you do anything in Washington, I'd love to staff you and he said that's great Thanks. He asked his assistant to write my name down and I went back to my broom closet Thinking nothing would happen But a couple months later I get a call from Denise Emmett who says please come up and and I worked on a project with Nick Brady in Washington. We became friends and colleagues. He becomes Secretary of the Treasury Eventually invites me to go to Washington as an assistant secretary and I honestly got with that with the point of the story is That little bit of initiative to force myself to get up and you know Very fearfully knock on his door thinking he might take it the wrong way maybe I wanted to leave the firm or something and That little bit of initiative without that I would not be sitting here There's no way I'd be sitting here that that is what opened the door to me to do public service At a high level that I hadn't really earned or deserved So that that's everything you don't have a PhD. No, so did you ever think that you wanted to go to the Fed? So when I worked at Treasury, I worked at Treasury for three years And I really liked the people at the Fed people like Don Cohn and Alan Greenspan and many others I liked it, but I never thought that's where I would wind up I thought I'd love to come back and serve again in some kind of economic capacity But I never thought I would be at the Fed. So then I can what happened was I Did a study of the debt ceiling during the 2010 debt ceiling crisis and I briefed really the Republican House and Senate Caucuses and convinced them that they had to raise the debt ceiling that it wasn't a fake thing that there really would be a default and the Obama administration was extremely grateful to me for doing that and And nominated me to the Fed and I and I've loved it really since uh since I started there So you never had the sense there's a guy you probably know who has a sense that your job He says it's the greatest job in government You show up to the office once a month and you say let's flip a coin and everybody talks about you like you're a god Yeah That is President-elect Trump, I know yeah So he's right the part about it being the greatest job it might well be right I have to say I do as I mentioned I do love the work and It's a special place to you know to be surrounded by people who are so dedicated and to know that you're that your work really Matters for people. It's a very special honor to do that work. Did you laugh when you heard that? I Thought he's partly right there because but he's not right about to come to work You know once every month just the flipping of the coin part. Yeah, that part is it's not quite It's not like that not like that Let me ask you this because it is the sort of political question. That's that I think is in the mix right now Which is you have talked a lot about the importance of the independence of the Federal Reserve This is a group of people that I know that you are highly committed to and there are now Genuine questions because the president-elect has been quite outspoken about it Just publicly about the idea that maybe the Federal Reserve should Come under more control and have the White House should have more influence over it What do you think when you hear that? Well, I think that the case for what is the case for the Fed being independent? What does independent mean it basically means that we can make our decisions without them being reversed other than by Congress? Which created it? We're a creature of Congress. We're not in the Constitution. We're a creature of statute So that's what independent means and that gives us the ability to make these decisions For the benefit of all Americans at all times not for any particular political party or political outcome We're supposed to achieve maximum employment and price stability for the benefit of all Americans and keep out of politics completely I think there's very very broad support for that set of ideas in Congress in both political parties on both sides of the hill sides of the hill and that's what really matters it's in the it's the law of the land and I'm not concerned that that that there that There's some risk that that we would lose our statutory independence because I do think that that those set of ideas are Strongly believed by people and as I do fear I mean he has talked openly about firing you which is something technically He's not supposed to be able to do So I never discuss anything that elected officials say so I'm gonna disappoint you here I just know you know we this is our focus The US economy is in is in very good shape right now. It's in remarkably good shape we are the sort of envy of other large economies around the world and I want to do everything I can to keep it there During the rest of my term and I feel very good about the economy isn't where monetary policy We're gonna go there in a moment, and I'm gonna try it slightly different approach with you, which is this Because this guy's not elected yet or even Confirmed so the new Treasury secretary likely to be if he gets confirmed Scott Besson who I think you know Has made this this is what he told the Barons. He said it publicly He said quote and this is an effort to undermine your power he said you could do the earliest Fed nomination and create a Shadow Fed chair and based on the concept of forward guidance effectively the idea of what people expect in the future No one is really gonna care what Jerome Powell has to say anymore What do you think the impact of something like that would be do you believe that that's even a possibility in the world So let me say I I don't think that's on the table at all. I There's a there's a set of institutional relationships with between the Fed and every administration I fully expect that we'll have the same general kinds of relationships that we have Institutional relationships for example with the Council of Economic Advisers But most importantly with the Treasury Department the Treasury secretary and the Fed chair have had breakfast or lunch together every week for 75 years and Not more than that the institutions have to you know There's got to be trust and mutual respect and acknowledgement of the different authorities and boundaries that we have But but a very constructive relationship because you know in times of crisis. We we work much more together under the law Nonetheless, it's it's a very important relationship And I fully I'm confident that we'll have the same kinds of relationships with see that first lunch though. It's gonna be interesting It's gonna be fine. Have you guys talked? I don't you know I don't know him I don't know him well, but but I'm I am confident that I will have the same kind of relationship With him once he's confirmed as I've had with other Treasury secretaries, okay Let me ask you a slightly different question that's in the same category But but actually very different about just influence from from the White House because I think the public Would help people to understand it so before Paul Volcker passed away I went to go visit him in his apartment on the Upper East Side This is back in 2018 I was writing a story about him and he had just written a book and he had talked about and told me a story about how President Ronald Reagan and his chief of staff back then James Baker Had asked him to come to the Oval Office. This is in 1984 and he says quote Reagan didn't say a word Instead Baker delivered a message the president is ordering you not to raise interest rates before the election Now Volcker wasn't planning to raise interest rates And he said that he was stunned by all this and then he went on to say that he later surmised that the library location Had been chosen quote because unlike the Oval Office it probably lacked a taping system Has anything like that ever happened to you Basically no no I mean you remember in the prior administration There was a lot of public things that happened in and the things that happened in private were exactly the same The president said the same things to me privately as he said publicly I said the same things privately to the president as I said publicly so all of that is it was in the prior administration, but Nothing like I know I'm very familiar with that story and with that book by the way, but nothing exactly like that happened The other question that I had just is this a government question, which is we've been talking about doge and things like that today The Fed is self-funded my understanding but it does have congressional oversight as Congress thinks about trying to figure out how to deal with the debt in the deficits and trying to make things more efficient Do you think that? The Fed could come into or come under some kind of doge like program You know part of our independence is that we are self-funded and we have you know The ability to make our own decisions about hiring people and that kind of thing so we've got we've got strong legal independence We do try to run the the the Fed respectfully and You know we know these are taxpayer dollars even though we do Essentially we have a large balance sheet and our assets earn more than our liabilities So we're earning a spread and and we give we give those profits every year to the Treasury Department But we also use some of it to pay for the Fed, but we try to be good You know stewards of the public's money as well You know one of the things that I think is fascinating about you and differs from many of the other predecessors of yours is you speak very plainly about the Fed and Transparently Alan Greenspan spoke somewhat obtusely There was always this sort of communication divide in some ways And I'm so curious how you think about that which is this idea of communicating and some people by the way would argue Over-communicating in terms of the way the Fed approaches its job today sort of post-financial crisis There really was a move to try to tell the public what was going to happen to try to tell everybody Where everybody thought the Fed was about to go and whether you think long-term that that has helped you or Long-term whether you think that that has to be rethought you know so go back 50 years and central banks were mysterious and you know that was there was a lot of lore that that Was the right thing to be then there was a bunch of academic research by people like Alan Blinder and others which Came to the view which is I think clearly correct that if the money was going to go to the central bank Which is I think clearly correct that if the market and the public understand how you will react to incoming data Then they'll do your work for you You know the so so today when some economic event happens markets adjust immediately long before we take any policy action So that so that's the whole modern theory is to be as transparent as possible And we've you know we've greatly increased transparency people do make the argument that you know enough transparency Maybe it's too much, but I think generally the overall trend over 40 years of history has been very constructive And also you know we're a public entity. We shouldn't be mysterious We should be telling people what we're doing and why in terms of speaking plainly I think it's it's important that and that the interested public be able to understand what we're doing and so we It's it's important that we explain it that in a way that doesn't include a lot of jargon Jargon is really important when you're talking to other central bankers or other economists But when you talk to the public and use jargon you just you just make people angry because it's excluded excludes people But do you think it makes it harder for you to make a snap decision if a snap decision is necessary? Because the markets have already moved on this expectation of where they think you're supposed to be or that we think you're going I haven't that hasn't happened I mean we've we've moved very very quickly both up and down with rates when it became appropriate to do so I mean we cut rates We were the first central bank in the world to cut rates to zero During the pandemic and we were we rose we raised rates during the inflation faster than any that then the Fed ever has so Here's a question about where we are now in this economy And I want to get into maybe where the economy may go but the expectation is that you're gonna cut rates But I'm curious About why why that is the expectation insofar as we're still in a moment where it appears that? Inflation looks a little stickier than we thought it did and the economy is stronger in Many ways than had been expected and so the question is what is the cost if you will of waiting? All right, so let me take a step back on that and just say the the background is that as I mentioned the u.s. Economy is doing very well. We're in a very good place with the economy. We're growing at you know around two and a half percent And inflation has come down Headline inflation was as high as seven point two or so now. It's at two point three percent And unemployment's at four point one percent, which is a little higher than it was a couple years ago But it's still near very it's a very very low level and you know we're not quite there on inflation But we're still making progress so the back story is that the u.s. Economy is in is in very good shape, and there's no reason for that not to continue So we we raise rates to five you know between five and a quarter and five and a half and we held them there for for for 14 months and Other central banks around the world had already started cutting We were the last major central bank to cut and we're now on a path to bring rates back down to a more neutral level over time But you're right the economy is strong, and it's stronger than we thought it was going to be in September So the labor market is is better and the downside risks appear to be less than the labor market Growth is definitely stronger than we thought and inflation is coming a little higher So the good news is that we we can afford to Be a little more cautious in as we as we try to find neutral Tell me I'm actually very curious about this just how you think about it occasionally when you either Either get it wrong, or it's not where you think it was gonna Go as you said you had a different view in September than you do now obviously things change But what was it in September that? Surprised you and if you could go back in time. Do you think that you would have known the difference? Well in September what we saw was the unemployment rate had moved up close to a full percentage point and Again, we'd held on long after others other major central banks had cut and I mean more broadly there are two risks, right? There's the risk that we move too quickly and undermine the progress We've made on inflation, and there's the risk that we move too slowly and unnecessarily undermine the labor market and we're so we're trying to to be in that middle place and And get it just right so that we continue to get inflation coming down We keep policy at a restrictive level, but at less restrictive level over time That's what we're trying to do in I would say in September. It was time for us to Cut because it was time and but but also because I wanted to send and we wanted to send a strong signal That we that we were gonna support the labor market if it continued to weaken What happened instead was in the couple of months after that we got some data revisions Which strongly suggested that the economy is even stronger than we thought even stronger than we thought so the picture is actually stronger Than it was then how do you think we as the public should think about when we get these labor numbers? Which by the way seem to get revised all the time do we have accounting problem? What is the what do you know and I ask it really? Because oftentimes we'll see a number and then you'll find out you know a month later that not only was there a new number But actually the old number was off by more than you could expect. Do you think there's a better way? So the way it works is that the numbers that people see from the household survey the household survey is the unemployment rate and then The end the payroll jobs, that's an establishment economic establishment survey Their surveys, so it's not you're not counting people nationwide. You're you're you're doing a Sophisticated as you can survey and you're projecting that out to the nation what's happened Lately is that survey response levels have come down and that has probably meant it's meant for smaller You know smaller groups of people and that means there's more volatility. There's been more volatility in the revision so you've seen a lot of months in which which the a Job number comes in and then it gets revised down the next month and that's typical when unemployment in the unemployment rate is going up We had these are the labor market data is among the best data that we get we do eventually not We the Fed doesn't do this kind of data, but it eventually gets gets down to counting people Into account and do you? some of the things that may be forward-looking in terms of Political or new policy changes, so we heard a couple things this morning we're talking to Ken Griffin one is he thinks that the economy is about to rip in a great way because The the regulatory shackles are going to come off the system That we're under by the Biden administration and and President-elect Trump is going to take that off at the same time we also talked about tariffs And the uncertainty that that would create which he does not think is going to actually create and much uncertainty at least for a while How do you sitting in your seat think about those things? So like all forecasters, you know, we we have to kind of make a guess at this point about what what's gonna mean for the economy But let me say let me let's take tariffs. Here's what we don't know about tariffs. We don't know how big they'll be We don't know their their timing in their duration. We don't know what goods will be tariff We don't know what country's goods will be tariffed. We don't know how how that will play into prices What will be the transmission into prices? We don't know how people in the markets and in the economy will react to that and we don't know whether other countries will retaliate So that's the list of things that we don't know it's a partial list of the things we don't know So you can't really start making policy on that at this time that that is something that lies well into the future We have to be we have to let this play out. We literally don't know all those things We also the main thing we don't know is all the other things that will be happening in the economy in six months or a year When this starts to matter so So it so what are we doing? We're modeling this we're looking at it Evaluating it we're observing but it's right the decisions we're making right now are not about that. They're about what's happening in the economy now*********Thanks, it's great to be here Andrew Thank you, you know Most of the interviews that you do people talk directly specifically and start about the economy people actually rarely I have found Try to find out about you and who you are and how this all happened and how you feel About all of this and so before we get into anything economic I just I just want to get personal With you because as I said, you know, there's a lot of powerful people in the world. A lot of them come on this stage There are presidents. There are CEOs. There are billionaires who are powerful, but in many ways uniquely You have a power that others do not and I'm so very curious as a human how that power sits with you Well, first of all, it's great to be here. Thanks for having me. I guess I would say that I I really love the work that I do and that's that's the main thing. I like my job. I love my job It's a great honor to do it The work is incredibly interesting all the time and I work at an institution full of highly talented people Who are committed to public service? We know that the things that we do really matter for Everybody, you know people and companies and so I get enormous satisfaction about that and I you know There's a fair amount of responsibility. But do you think about people who run large organizations? It probably feels very much the same Even when you can just change the dial and it changes everything so I've been at the Fed for almost 13 years and I've been chair for six and a half years and I'm kind of used to the work that we do and and the way we do it and all that and so I again I Don't experience it as difficult and unpleasant Although you know, it can it can certainly be that but I just feel I feel lucky to do it And I basically enjoy the work a great deal. Okay, so explain let's just go back in time though Just to explain a little bit to everybody about how this happened. It didn't just happen to you It's something that you wanted you graduated from Princeton After Princeton, by the way, you went to Europe from what I've read now you have a guitar. Yeah You were playing music in Paris including the song. I'm so lonesome. I could cry Could you still play that song? That's not a hard song to play. I could I could play that song I I can't sing it very did you make money doing this? No, no, never people pay me to stop actually and then you come back to the States and You become a lawyer then you go to Dylan Dylan Reed. Yeah, and When you're at Dylan Reed, which was an investment bank just to date the world here no longer with us It's been merged into a whole bunch of other places since then You had a boss named Nick Brady Nicholas Brady who later on by the way becomes the Treasury Secretary, but I'm curious You're sitting there at this bank and It was at this bank that you knew that you wanted to do Something in public service actually when I was in college I I'm not one of those very mature kids who came out with a plan. I really had one thought I'd grown up in Washington DC. My family was not part of the government and those elite circles, but I I had this thought that I wanted to have a life which was mostly in the private sector But then to do public service from time to time and I had people like Cyrus Vance and George Shultz Some of you may remember in mind people like that who had great private sector careers That was the only idea that I had and so one day at Dylan Reed I was I forced myself to get up and walk up the stairs and and knock on Nick Brady's Giant office, which seemed to me like the Palace of Versailles at the time given my I was working in a broom closet at the time And say Nick if you do anything in Washington, he would you know, he's a former US senator He was close to former President George HW Bush if you do anything in Washington, I'd love to staff you and he said that's great Thanks. He asked his assistant to write my name down and I went back to my broom closet Thinking nothing would happen But a couple months later I get a call from Denise Emmett who says please come up and and I worked on a project with Nick Brady in Washington. We became friends and colleagues. He becomes Secretary of the Treasury Eventually invites me to go to Washington as an assistant secretary and I honestly got with that with the point of the story is That little bit of initiative to force myself to get up and you know Very fearfully knock on his door thinking he might take it the wrong way maybe I wanted to leave the firm or something and That little bit of initiative without that I would not be sitting here There's no way I'd be sitting here that that is what opened the door to me to do public service At a high level that I hadn't really earned or deserved So that that's everything you don't have a PhD. No, so did you ever think that you wanted to go to the Fed? So when I worked at Treasury, I worked at Treasury for three years And I really liked the people at the Fed people like Don Cohn and Alan Greenspan and many others I liked it, but I never thought that's where I would wind up I thought I'd love to come back and serve again in some kind of economic capacity But I never thought I would be at the Fed. So then I can what happened was I Did a study of the debt ceiling during the 2010 debt ceiling crisis and I briefed really the Republican House and Senate Caucuses and convinced them that they had to raise the debt ceiling that it wasn't a fake thing that there really would be a default and the Obama administration was extremely grateful to me for doing that and And nominated me to the Fed and I and I've loved it really since uh since I started there So you never had the sense there's a guy you probably know who has a sense that your job He says it's the greatest job in government You show up to the office once a month and you say let's flip a coin and everybody talks about you like you're a god Yeah That is President-elect Trump, I know yeah So he's right the part about it being the greatest job it might well be right I have to say I do as I mentioned I do love the work and It's a special place to you know to be surrounded by people who are so dedicated and to know that you're that your work really Matters for people. It's a very special honor to do that work. Did you laugh when you heard that? I Thought he's partly right there because but he's not right about to come to work You know once every month just the flipping of the coin part. Yeah, that part is it's not quite It's not like that not like that Let me ask you this because it is the sort of political question. That's that I think is in the mix right now Which is you have talked a lot about the importance of the independence of the Federal Reserve This is a group of people that I know that you are highly committed to and there are now Genuine questions because the president-elect has been quite outspoken about it Just publicly about the idea that maybe the Federal Reserve should Come under more control and have the White House should have more influence over it What do you think when you hear that? Well, I think that the case for what is the case for the Fed being independent? What does independent mean it basically means that we can make our decisions without them being reversed other than by Congress? Which created it? We're a creature of Congress. We're not in the Constitution. We're a creature of statute So that's what independent means and that gives us the ability to make these decisions For the benefit of all Americans at all times not for any particular political party or political outcome We're supposed to achieve maximum employment and price stability for the benefit of all Americans and keep out of politics completely I think there's very very broad support for that set of ideas in Congress in both political parties on both sides of the hill sides of the hill and that's what really matters it's in the it's the law of the land and I'm not concerned that that that there that There's some risk that that we would lose our statutory independence because I do think that that those set of ideas are Strongly believed by people and as I do fear I mean he has talked openly about firing you which is something technically He's not supposed to be able to do So I never discuss anything that elected officials say so I'm gonna disappoint you here I just know you know we this is our focus The US economy is in is in very good shape right now. It's in remarkably good shape we are the sort of envy of other large economies around the world and I want to do everything I can to keep it there During the rest of my term and I feel very good about the economy isn't where monetary policy We're gonna go there in a moment, and I'm gonna try it slightly different approach with you, which is this Because this guy's not elected yet or even Confirmed so the new Treasury secretary likely to be if he gets confirmed Scott Besson who I think you know Has made this this is what he told the Barons. He said it publicly He said quote and this is an effort to undermine your power he said you could do the earliest Fed nomination and create a Shadow Fed chair and based on the concept of forward guidance effectively the idea of what people expect in the future No one is really gonna care what Jerome Powell has to say anymore What do you think the impact of something like that would be do you believe that that's even a possibility in the world So let me say I I don't think that's on the table at all. I There's a there's a set of institutional relationships with between the Fed and every administration I fully expect that we'll have the same general kinds of relationships that we have Institutional relationships for example with the Council of Economic Advisers But most importantly with the Treasury Department the Treasury secretary and the Fed chair have had breakfast or lunch together every week for 75 years and Not more than that the institutions have to you know There's got to be trust and mutual respect and acknowledgement of the different authorities and boundaries that we have But but a very constructive relationship because you know in times of crisis. We we work much more together under the law Nonetheless, it's it's a very important relationship And I fully I'm confident that we'll have the same kinds of relationships with see that first lunch though. It's gonna be interesting It's gonna be fine. Have you guys talked? I don't you know I don't know him I don't know him well, but but I'm I am confident that I will have the same kind of relationship With him once he's confirmed as I've had with other Treasury secretaries, okay Let me ask you a slightly different question that's in the same category But but actually very different about just influence from from the White House because I think the public Would help people to understand it so before Paul Volcker passed away I went to go visit him in his apartment on the Upper East Side This is back in 2018 I was writing a story about him and he had just written a book and he had talked about and told me a story about how President Ronald Reagan and his chief of staff back then James Baker Had asked him to come to the Oval Office. This is in 1984 and he says quote Reagan didn't say a word Instead Baker delivered a message the president is ordering you not to raise interest rates before the election Now Volcker wasn't planning to raise interest rates And he said that he was stunned by all this and then he went on to say that he later surmised that the library location Had been chosen quote because unlike the Oval Office it probably lacked a taping system Has anything like that ever happened to you Basically no no I mean you remember in the prior administration There was a lot of public things that happened in and the things that happened in private were exactly the same The president said the same things to me privately as he said publicly I said the same things privately to the president as I said publicly so all of that is it was in the prior administration, but Nothing like I know I'm very familiar with that story and with that book by the way, but nothing exactly like that happened The other question that I had just is this a government question, which is we've been talking about doge and things like that today The Fed is self-funded my understanding but it does have congressional oversight as Congress thinks about trying to figure out how to deal with the debt in the deficits and trying to make things more efficient Do you think that? The Fed could come into or come under some kind of doge like program You know part of our independence is that we are self-funded and we have you know The ability to make our own decisions about hiring people and that kind of thing so we've got we've got strong legal independence We do try to run the the the Fed respectfully and You know we know these are taxpayer dollars even though we do Essentially we have a large balance sheet and our assets earn more than our liabilities So we're earning a spread and and we give we give those profits every year to the Treasury Department But we also use some of it to pay for the Fed, but we try to be good You know stewards of the public's money as well You know one of the things that I think is fascinating about you and differs from many of the other predecessors of yours is you speak very plainly about the Fed and Transparently Alan Greenspan spoke somewhat obtusely There was always this sort of communication divide in some ways And I'm so curious how you think about that which is this idea of communicating and some people by the way would argue Over-communicating in terms of the way the Fed approaches its job today sort of post-financial crisis There really was a move to try to tell the public what was going to happen to try to tell everybody Where everybody thought the Fed was about to go and whether you think long-term that that has helped you or Long-term whether you think that that has to be rethought you know so go back 50 years and central banks were mysterious and you know that was there was a lot of lore that that Was the right thing to be then there was a bunch of academic research by people like Alan Blinder and others which Came to the view which is I think clearly correct that if the money was going to go to the central bank Which is I think clearly correct that if the market and the public understand how you will react to incoming data Then they'll do your work for you You know the so so today when some economic event happens markets adjust immediately long before we take any policy action So that so that's the whole modern theory is to be as transparent as possible And we've you know we've greatly increased transparency people do make the argument that you know enough transparency Maybe it's too much, but I think generally the overall trend over 40 years of history has been very constructive And also you know we're a public entity. We shouldn't be mysterious We should be telling people what we're doing and why in terms of speaking plainly I think it's it's important that and that the interested public be able to understand what we're doing and so we It's it's important that we explain it that in a way that doesn't include a lot of jargon Jargon is really important when you're talking to other central bankers or other economists But when you talk to the public and use jargon you just you just make people angry because it's excluded excludes people But do you think it makes it harder for you to make a snap decision if a snap decision is necessary? Because the markets have already moved on this expectation of where they think you're supposed to be or that we think you're going I haven't that hasn't happened I mean we've we've moved very very quickly both up and down with rates when it became appropriate to do so I mean we cut rates We were the first central bank in the world to cut rates to zero During the pandemic and we were we rose we raised rates during the inflation faster than any that then the Fed ever has so Here's a question about where we are now in this economy And I want to get into maybe where the economy may go but the expectation is that you're gonna cut rates But I'm curious About why why that is the expectation insofar as we're still in a moment where it appears that? Inflation looks a little stickier than we thought it did and the economy is stronger in Many ways than had been expected and so the question is what is the cost if you will of waiting? All right, so let me take a step back on that and just say the the background is that as I mentioned the u.s. Economy is doing very well. We're in a very good place with the economy. We're growing at you know around two and a half percent And inflation has come down Headline inflation was as high as seven point two or so now. It's at two point three percent And unemployment's at four point one percent, which is a little higher than it was a couple years ago But it's still near very it's a very very low level and you know we're not quite there on inflation But we're still making progress so the back story is that the u.s. Economy is in is in very good shape, and there's no reason for that not to continue So we we raise rates to five you know between five and a quarter and five and a half and we held them there for for for 14 months and Other central banks around the world had already started cutting We were the last major central bank to cut and we're now on a path to bring rates back down to a more neutral level over time But you're right the economy is strong, and it's stronger than we thought it was going to be in September So the labor market is is better and the downside risks appear to be less than the labor market Growth is definitely stronger than we thought and inflation is coming a little higher So the good news is that we we can afford to Be a little more cautious in as we as we try to find neutral Tell me I'm actually very curious about this just how you think about it occasionally when you either Either get it wrong, or it's not where you think it was gonna Go as you said you had a different view in September than you do now obviously things change But what was it in September that? Surprised you and if you could go back in time. Do you think that you would have known the difference? Well in September what we saw was the unemployment rate had moved up close to a full percentage point and Again, we'd held on long after others other major central banks had cut and I mean more broadly there are two risks, right? There's the risk that we move too quickly and undermine the progress We've made on inflation, and there's the risk that we move too slowly and unnecessarily undermine the labor market and we're so we're trying to to be in that middle place and And get it just right so that we continue to get inflation coming down We keep policy at a restrictive level, but at less restrictive level over time That's what we're trying to do in I would say in September. It was time for us to Cut because it was time and but but also because I wanted to send and we wanted to send a strong signal That we that we were gonna support the labor market if it continued to weaken What happened instead was in the couple of months after that we got some data revisions Which strongly suggested that the economy is even stronger than we thought even stronger than we thought so the picture is actually stronger Than it was then how do you think we as the public should think about when we get these labor numbers? Which by the way seem to get revised all the time do we have accounting problem? What is the what do you know and I ask it really? Because oftentimes we'll see a number and then you'll find out you know a month later that not only was there a new number But actually the old number was off by more than you could expect. Do you think there's a better way? So the way it works is that the numbers that people see from the household survey the household survey is the unemployment rate and then The end the payroll jobs, that's an establishment economic establishment survey Their surveys, so it's not you're not counting people nationwide. You're you're you're doing a Sophisticated as you can survey and you're projecting that out to the nation what's happened Lately is that survey response levels have come down and that has probably meant it's meant for smaller You know smaller groups of people and that means there's more volatility. There's been more volatility in the revision so you've seen a lot of months in which which the a Job number comes in and then it gets revised down the next month and that's typical when unemployment in the unemployment rate is going up We had these are the labor market data is among the best data that we get we do eventually not We the Fed doesn't do this kind of data, but it eventually gets gets down to counting people Into account and do you? some of the things that may be forward-looking in terms of Political or new policy changes, so we heard a couple things this morning we're talking to Ken Griffin one is he thinks that the economy is about to rip in a great way because The the regulatory shackles are going to come off the system That we're under by the Biden administration and and President-elect Trump is going to take that off at the same time we also talked about tariffs And the uncertainty that that would create which he does not think is going to actually create and much uncertainty at least for a while How do you sitting in your seat think about those things? So like all forecasters, you know, we we have to kind of make a guess at this point about what what's gonna mean for the economy But let me say let me let's take tariffs. Here's what we don't know about tariffs. We don't know how big they'll be We don't know their their timing in their duration. We don't know what goods will be tariff We don't know what country's goods will be tariffed. We don't know how how that will play into prices What will be the transmission into prices? We don't know how people in the markets and in the economy will react to that and we don't know whether other countries will retaliate So that's the list of things that we don't know it's a partial list of the things we don't know So you can't really start making policy on that at this time that that is something that lies well into the future We have to be we have to let this play out. We literally don't know all those things We also the main thing we don't know is all the other things that will be happening in the economy in six months or a year When this starts to matter so So it so what are we doing? We're modeling this we're looking at it Evaluating it we're observing but it's right the decisions we're making right now are not about that. They're about what's happening in the economy now.

*********Similar answer in terms of immigration and the reason I asked about immigration is, you know, the CBO has calculated that if there's one force in the economy today that could be a major boost or not to the GDP, jobs, tax revenue, lowering the deficit, all of it, seems to be about higher net immigration. You know, so let me say, for both trade and immigration, the Fed has no role in that policy. We don't have an institutional view on the right level of tariffs or the right level of immigration. It's just not our job. That's the job of elected people. We don't comment on the decisions they make for whatever reasons they deem appropriate. We don't comment on that. But I can tell you, you know, there was a great deal of significant wave of immigration. It's now come, the level of immigration has come way down in the second half of this year as the existing, the Biden administration changed its policies. It's true that a lot of people came in and they went to work and that was part of why the GDP growth was so high in 2023 was a wave of people coming in and doing more work and spending money. I know the dollar is the Treasury's department, so I'm not going to ask you about the dollar per se, but I am curious, just because it relates to tariffs, there has been this sort of speculation around tariffing countries, BRIC countries that may be trying to build their own currency. And long term, if you're just to think out a long time, the idea of the U.S. as a reserve currency relative to somebody else creating their own. Is that something that concerns you? You know, so I mean, you started with this. The administration and more particularly the Treasury Department has responsibility for the value of the dollar and for exchange. It's not something that we opine on. We stay very, we stay away from that and they stay away from, you know, what we do. You hope. Let me ask you a slightly different question about crypto. We were talking earlier also about Bitcoin and it's going, you know, it's rising. There's there's talk in Washington also about creating a Bitcoin reserve, actually. You do deal with currencies to some degree and you have to think about some of these issues. How does crypto sit with you right now at a time when it appears that this administration, this next administration may legalize it in a much more broader way? I mean, it's legal now, but but that there might be a much bigger groundswell for it. So from from the jobs that we have, what's relevant is really two things. One is just, you know, if what what role should crypto be? Crypto assets be allowed to play in the banking system. We try to keep the banking system safe and sound. We regulate and supervise banks and we would want the interaction between the crypto business and the and the and the banks to not to threaten the health and well-being of the banks. That's that's thing one. The other one just is to the extent anybody's doing that through a bank, we would want the public to if people are buying crypto products and things like that, it's sort of a consumer protection aspect of it. They would need should need to understand exactly what it is and that sort of thing. But we're not, you know, we don't regulate it directly and we don't have that big of a role. Would you ever own it yourself? I'm not allowed to. You're not allowed to? No. One of the big issues coming up is going to be taxes and the budget. We talked about doge and all of this. One thing that you have spoken out quite emphatically about is debt and deficits. You've been doing that now for a very, very long time. What is in your mind the tipping point for the debt and the deficit in that, you know, for a very long time, I go back to thinking of 2010 or 11. I read some of the speeches you were giving back then and think about Simpson Bowles. And at that time, people talked about the debt and deficit were a tipping point. If we don't deal with it immediately, you know, we're on a knife's edge. We're going to tip over. And here we are in 2024 and we haven't tipped over yet. In between that, there was this whole MMT idea that somehow we could just spend money wildly and that would be fine too. And I'm not sure that's gained too much traction either. Maybe it's been undone. But what do you worry about as the tipping point for all of this? So you're right. I did work on fiscal policy issues before I came to the Fed. But at the Fed, you know, we don't have oversight over fiscal policy. Quite to the contrary, Congress has oversight over us. So I would limit myself to saying this, that the U.S. federal budget is on an unsustainable path. The debt is not at an unsustainable level, but the path is unsustainable. And we know that we have to change that. We've got to get back so that revenues and spending are in better alignment. We don't need to pay the debt down. We don't need to balance the budget. We just need the economy to grow faster than the debt. And that's not happening. We're running very large budget deficits at a time of full employment and strong growth. So we need to address that. And we've got to do it sooner or later. And sooner is better than later. Now, do you think the Fed should or could take into account the debt and deficits and that cost in terms of where you think rates can or should be ever? No. Never. I mean, if the central bank  this is a  you see this in some emerging market countries, for example. If the central bank can't raise rates to deal with inflation because the fiscal situation is so bad that they can't raise rates, that's called fiscal dominance. And we're so far from that. I mean, we will never  we will never  we will always use our  I put it this way  we'll always use our tools to achieve price stability and maximum employment, 2 percent inflation. We're not thinking about, oh, we better not raise rates because of the budget. If we ever get to that point, we're far from that point. Right. Before I forget, one of the reasons I wanted to actually ask about Bitcoin is to some degree people think that that is a symbol of people's faith or lack of faith in either the US dollar or in the Federal Reserve itself in terms of the system. What do you think of that idea? I don't think that's how people think about it. I mean, it's so  people use Bitcoin as a speculative asset, right? It's like gold. It's like gold only. It's virtual. It's digital. People are not using it as a form of payment or as a store of value. It's highly volatile. It's not a competitor for the dollar. It's really a competitor for gold. You know, it's  that's really how I think of it. When you think about other countries, and I know it's not your job necessarily to think about other countries, but you spend a lot of time, I think, talking to your peers at other central banks, what are you most concerned about? Are you most concerned about the economy in China right now? Are you most concerned about Europe? What's the  take us around the world. So I think that as good as things are in the United States, of course, there are always risks. And certainly, geopolitical risk is very elevated around the world with Ukraine and the Middle East and, you know, kind of very weak growth in places like China. That's all out there. I think domestically, we do see low and moderate income people under some economic pressure. If you read, for example, the  or listen to the earnings reports from some of the retailers who deal a lot with low and moderate income people, they will uniformly say that people are under pressure. They're very much price shopping and that kind of thing. So that's  the aggregate numbers for the U.S. are really good, but we see pressures there in the lower income spectrum that we didn't see two years ago after the pandemic when people came out with, you know, really significant amounts of savings. One of the  you know, when we came up  I don't know if you got a chance to see the video. We were talking  one of the big things was vibe session, vibe session, this idea of how people think, the vibe about the economy. And I think the vibe had a lot to do with actually the result of the election. And I'm curious how you think about this question, about inflation. You know, a lot of people were saying, well, it is this past administration's fault, the inflation problem. Some people said it was your fault. Some people said it was how much money Congress appropriated during that  during the period of COVID. How do you actually think about it yourself? Look, I  there were  we shut down the world economy partially, and there was a global outburst of inflation. There was a time when there wasn't a single country in the world that had 2 percent inflation. It was everywhere, OK? And what was it because? It was because of a lot of pent-up demand. It was certainly because of very strong fiscal support and low rates. All of those things contributed to inflation everywhere. And now, it's  you know, if you look at  I could show you a graph of 10 countries, and they all look like that, and I'd say, which one is the United States? You wouldn't be able to  you'd have a 1 in 10 chance of guessing. So I think that's what happened. And you know, the good news is, in the case of the United States, we're back to a much better place. And I will say, people are unhappy because the price level is higher. You can tell people that inflation has gone down, which is the change in prices, but that doesn't matter to people who are paying, you know, 10, 20 percent more for the important things in their lives. You are known to spend a lot of time talking to folks in Congress privately. Folks like Fetterman, by the way, love you, apparently. I'm curious what you think the state of financial literacy is in Congress today. So like anything else, it's mixed. You know, there are people who are very knowledgeable, and they tend to be the ones in responsible positions on the important committees. And there are people who  you know, there are so many things to be an expert on when you're a congressman or a senator. Think of the breadth of the things they have to know about. You know, defense, it's endless. So it's not surprising that most of them are not  you know, a good number of them are focused on the economy and, you know, monetary policy and things like that. But many of them are focused on other things, as you would expect. We are out of time, but before we go, I am told that you have a special talent. I don't know if the public knows about this special talent, but I thought since we're here, we should try it out, which is that apparently you can repeat sentences backwards famously. Ever since I was a little kid, I was able to see  and just for standard vocabulary words, I can see it in my head spelled forwards and backwards. I started  pretty much any word, as long as it's not 12 syllables, you know. And I started doing that for friends when I was about 10 years old, and they were like, what is that, you know. So I would write it down. So I can  yeah, I can just see the  and I'm not as good as I used to be, but I can literally see the word forward and backward in my head, and I can spell it backwards. Like you're a word in a  So if I give you a sentence, can you do the whole sentence backwards? I can do each word. I can't do the whole sentence. So the sentence I had written down  this was Bernanke in 2008  it may be too long for you, though. If we don't do this now, we won't have an economy on Monday. I'll do economy, inimos. Imonos. That's economy, backward. I'm not going to do the whole sentence. Jay Powell, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.*********Similar answer in terms of immigration and the reason I asked about immigration is, you know, the CBO has calculated that if there's one force in the economy today that could be a major boost or not to the GDP, jobs, tax revenue, lowering the deficit, all of it seems to be about higher net immigration. You know, so let me say, for both trade and immigration, the Fed has no role in that policy. We don't have an institutional view on the right level of tariffs or the right level of immigration. It's just not our job. That's the job of elected people. We don't comment on the decisions they make for whatever reasons they deem appropriate. We don't comment on that. But I can tell you, you know, there was a great deal of significant wave of immigration. It's now come, the level of immigration has come way down in the second half of this year as the existing, the Biden administration changed its policies. It's true that a lot of people came in and they went to work and that was part of why the GDP growth was so high in 2023 was a wave of people coming in and doing more work and spending money. I know the dollar is the Treasury's department, so I'm not going to ask you about the dollar per se, but I am curious just because it relates to tariffs, there has been this sort of speculation around tariffing countries, BRIC countries that may be trying to build their own currency. And long term, if you're just to think out a long time, the idea of the U.S. as a reserve currency relative to somebody else creating their own, is that something that concerns you? You know, so, I mean, you started with this, the administration and more particularly the Treasury Department has responsibility for the value of the dollar and for exchange. It's not something that we opine on. We stay away from that and they stay away from, you know, what we do. You hope. Let me ask you a slightly different question about crypto. We were talking earlier also about Bitcoin and it's going, you know, it's rising. There's talk in Washington also about creating a Bitcoin reserve, actually. You do deal with currencies to some degree and you have to think about some of these issues. How does crypto sit with you right now at a time when it appears that this administration, this next administration may legalize it in a much more broader way? I mean, it's legal now, but that there might be a much bigger groundswell for it. So, from the jobs that we have, what's relevant is really two things. One is just, you know, what role should crypto assets be allowed to play in the banking system? We try to keep the banking system safe and sound. We regulate and supervise banks and we would want the interaction between the crypto business and the banks to not to threaten the health and well-being of the banks. That's thing one. The other one just is, to the extent anybody's doing that through a bank, we would want the public to, if people are buying crypto products and things like that, it's sort of a consumer protection aspect of it. They should need to understand exactly what it is and that sort of thing. But we're not, you know, we don't regulate it directly and we don't have that big of a role. Would you ever own it yourself? I'm not allowed to. You're not allowed to? No. One of the big issues coming up is going to be taxes and the budget. We talked about Doge and all of this. One thing that you have spoken out quite emphatically about is debt and deficits. You've been doing that now for a very, very long time. What is in your mind the tipping point for the debt and the deficit in that, you know, for a very long time, I go back to thinking of 2010 or 11, I read some of the speeches that you were giving back then and thinking about Simpson-Bowles. And at that time, people talked about the debt and deficit were a tipping point if we don't deal with it immediately, you know, we're on a knife's edge, we're going to tip over. And here we are in 2024 and we haven't tipped over yet. And in between that, there was this whole MMT idea that somehow we could just spend money wildly and that would be fine too. And I'm not sure that's gained too much traction either. Maybe it's been undone. But what do you worry about as the tipping point for all of this? So you're right, I did work on fiscal policy issues before I came to the Fed. But at the Fed, you know, we don't have oversight over fiscal policy, quite to the contrary. Congress has oversight over us. So I would limit myself to saying this, that the U.S. federal budget is on an unsustainable path. The debt is not as an unsustainable level, but the path is unsustainable. And we know that we have to change that. We've got to get back so that revenues and spending are in better alignment. We don't need to pay the debt down. We don't need to balance the budget. We just need the economy to grow faster than the debt. And that's not happening. We're running very large budget deficits at a time of full employment and strong growth. So we need to address that. And we've got to do it sooner or later. And sooner is better than later. Now, do you think the Fed should or could take into account the debt and deficits and that cost in terms of where you think rates can or should be ever? No, never. I mean, if the central bank, this is a, you see this in some emerging market countries, for example. If the central bank can't raise rates to deal with inflation because the fiscal situation is so bad that they can't raise rates, that's called fiscal dominance. And we're so far from that. I mean, we will never, we will never, we will always use our, I put it this way, we'll always use our tools to achieve price stability and maximum employment. 2% inflation. We're not thinking about, oh, we better not raise rates because of the budget. If we ever get to that point, we're far from that point. Right. Before I forget, you know, one of the reasons I wanted to actually ask about Bitcoin is to some degree people think that that is a symbol of people's faith or lack of faith in either the U.S. dollar or in the Federal Reserve itself in terms of the system. What do you think of that idea? I don't think that's how people think about it. I mean, it's so, you know, people use Bitcoin as a speculative asset, right? It's like gold. It's just like gold only. It's virtual. It's digital. People are not using it as a form of payment or as a store of value. It's highly volatile. It's not a competitor for the dollar. It's really a competitor for gold. You know, it's, that's really how I think of it. When you think about other countries, and I know it's not your job necessarily to think about other countries, but you spend a lot of time, I think, talking to your peers at other central banks. What are you most concerned about? You most concerned about the economy in China right now? Are you most concerned about Europe? What's the take on the world? As good as things are in the United States, of course, there are always risks. And, you know, certainly geopolitical risk is very elevated around the world with Ukraine and the Middle East and, you know, kind of very weak growth in places like China, that's all out there. I think domestically, we do see low and moderate income people under some economic pressure. If you read, for example, the, or listen to the earnings reports from some of the retailers who deal a lot with low and moderate income people, they will uniformly say that people are under pressure. They're very much price shopping and that kind of thing. So, that's, the aggregate numbers for the U.S. are really good, but we see pressures there in the lower income spectrum that we didn't see two years ago after the pandemic when people came out with, you know, really significant amounts of savings. One of the, you know, when we came up, and I don't know if you got a chance to see the video, we were talking, one of the big things was vibe session, vibe session. This idea of how people think, the vibe about the economy. And, I think the vibe had a lot to do with actually the result of the election. And, I'm curious how you think about this question, about inflation. You know, a lot of people were saying, well, it is this past administration's fault, the inflation problem. Some people said it was your fault. Some people said it was how much money Congress appropriated during that, during the period of COVID. How do you actually think about it yourself? All right, look, I, there were, we shut down the world economy partially, and there was a global outburst of inflation. There was a time when there wasn't a single country in the world that had 2% inflation. It was everywhere, okay? And, what was it because? It was because of a lot of pent up demand. It was certainly because of very strong fiscal support and low rates. All of those things contributed to inflation everywhere. And, now, it's, you know, if you look at, I could show you a graph of 10 countries, and they all look like that, and I'd say, which one is the United States? You wouldn't be able to, you'd have a 1 in 10 chance of guessing. So, I think that's what happened. And, you know, the good news is, in the case of the United States, we're back to a much better place. But, I will say, people are unhappy because the price level is higher. You can tell, you can tell people that inflation has gone down, which is the change in prices, but that doesn't, that doesn't matter to people who are paying, you know, 10, 20% more for the important things in their lives. You are known to spend a lot of time talking to folks in Congress privately. Folks like Fetterman, by the way, love you, apparently. I'm curious what you think the state of financial literacy is in Congress today. So, like anything else, it's mixed. You know, there are people who are very knowledgeable, and they tend to be the ones in responsible positions on the important committees. And, there are people who, you know, they, there's so many things to be an expert on when you're a congressman or a senator. Think of the breadth of the things they have to know about. You know, defense, it's endless. So, it's not surprising that most of them are not, you know, a good number of them are focused on the economy and, you know, monetary policy and things like that. But, many of them are focused on other things, as you would expect. We are out of time, but before we go, I am told that you have a special talent. I don't know if the public knows about this special talent, but I thought since we're here, we should try it out, which is that apparently you can repeat sentences backwards, famously. No, ever since I was a little kid, I was able to see, and just for standard vocabulary words, I can see it in my head spelled forwards and backwards. I started, pretty much any word, as long as it's not 12 syllables, you know. But, and I started doing that for friends when I was about 10 years old, and they were like, what is that, you know. So, I would write it down. So, I can, yeah, I can just see that, and I'm not as good as I used to be, but I can literally see the word forward and backward in my head, and I can spell it backwards. Like, you're a word in a sort of, not question. So, if I give you a sentence, can you do the whole sentence backwards? I can do each word. I can't do the whole sentence. So, the sentence I had written down, this was Bernanke in 2008. It may be too long for you, though. If we don't do this now, we won't have an economy on Monday. I'll do economy, enimos. Emonos, that's economy, backward. I'm not going to do the whole sentence. Jay Powell, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Andrew. This year, as the existing, the Biden administration changed its policies. Right. It's true.