Good afternoon, my colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dual mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Our economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward our goals over the past two years. The labor market has cooled from its formerly overheated state. Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7% to an estimated 2.2% as of August. We're committed to maintaining our economy's strength by supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to our 2% goal. 

Today, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to reduce the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by a half percentage point. This decision reflects our growing confidence that with an appropriate recalibration of our policy stance, strength in the labor market can be maintained in a context of moderate growth and inflation moving sustainably down to 2%. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. 

Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace. GDP rose at an annual rate of 2.2% in the first half of the year, and available data point to a roughly similar pace of growth this quarter. Growth of consumer spending has remained resilient, and investment in equipment and intangibles has picked up from its anemic pace last year. In the housing sector, investment fell back in the second quarter after rising strongly in the first. Improving supply conditions have supported resilient demand and the strong performance of the U.S. economy over the past year. In our summary of economic projections, committee participants generally expect GDP growth to remain solid with a median projection of 2% over the next few years. In the labor market, conditions have continued to cool. 

Payroll job gains averaged 116,000 per month over the past three months, a notable step down from the pace seen earlier in the year. The unemployment rate has moved up, but remains low at 4.2%. Nominal wage growth has eased over the past year, and the jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of indicators suggest that conditions in the labor market are now less tight than just before the pandemic in 2019. The labor market is not a source of elevated inflationary pressures. The median projection for the unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.4% at the end of this year, four-tenths higher than projected in June. 

Inflation has eased notably over the past two years, but remains above our longer-run goal of 2%. Estimates based on the Consumer Price Index and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.2% over the 12 months ending in August, and that excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.7%. Longer-term inflation expectations appear to remain well-anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.3% this year, and 2.1% next year, somewhat lower than projected in June. Thereafter, the median projection is 2%. 

Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. For much of the past three years, inflation ran well above our 2% goal, and labor market conditions were extremely tight. 

Our primary focus had been on bringing down inflation, and appropriately so. We are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials, like food, housing, and transportation. Our restrictive monetary policy has helped restore the balance between aggregate supply and demand, easing inflationary pressures, and ensuring that inflation expectations remain well-anchored. Our patient approach also has been to reduce inflation to 2.3%. 

Our patient approach over the past year has paid dividends. Inflation is now much closer to our objective, and we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%. As inflation has declined and the labor market has cooled, the upside risks to inflation have diminished, and the downside risks to employment have increased. We now see the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals as roughly in balance. And we are attentive to the risks to both sides of our dual mandate. 

In light of the progress on inflation and the balance of risks, at today's meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by a half percentage point to 4.75% to 5%. This recalibration of our policy stance will help maintain the strength of the economy and the labor market, and will continue to enable further progress on inflation as we begin the process of moving toward a more neutral stance. 

We are not on any pre-set course. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. We know that reducing policy restraint too quickly could hinder progress on inflation. At the same time, reducing restraint too slowly could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. 

In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. If the economy evolves as expected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 4.4% at the end of this year and 3.4% at the end of 2025. These median projections are lower than in June, consistent with the projections for lower inflation and higher unemployment, as well as the changed balance of risks. 

These projections, however, are not a Committee plan or decision. As the economy evolves, monetary policy will adjust in order to best promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. 

If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we are prepared to respond. Policy is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. 

The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy, maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation back down to our 2% goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions. 

Steve Leisman, CNBC. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for taking our questions. In July, you said you weren't necessarily thinking about a 50. You didn't want to be specific, but you said you weren't thinking about a 50. The inflation data last week came out a little firmer than expected. Retail was strong, third-quarter GDP running 3%. So what changed that made the committee go 50? And how do you respond to the concerns that perhaps it shows the Fed is more concerned about the labor market? And I guess, should we expect a 50% increase in the labor market? And if so, how do you respond to that? And I guess, should we expect more 50s in the months ahead? And based on what, should we make that call? 

POWELL: Thank you. So, okay, a lot of questions in there. Let me jump in. So, since the last meeting, okay, the last meeting, we have had a lot of data come in. We've had the two employment reports, July and August. We've also had two inflation reports, including one that came in during blackout. We had the QCEW report, which said that we had a 50% increase in the labor market, which suggests that maybe, not maybe, but suggests that the payroll report numbers that we're getting may be artificially high and will be revised down, you know that. We've also seen anecdotal data like the Beige Book. And so we took all of those, and we went into blackout, and we thought about what to do, and we concluded that this was the right thing for the economy, for the people that we serve, and that's how we made our decision. That's one question. What was the second and third? 

How do we make the, sorry, thank you, sir. How do we figure out, in the months ahead, is there another 25 or 50 coming in, based on what, shall we make that call? Thank you. 

POWELL: Sure, so, a couple things. A good place to start is the SEP, but let me start with what I said, which was that we're going to be making decisions, meeting by meeting, based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, the balance of risks. If you look at the SEP, you'll see that it's a process of recalibrating our policy stance, away from where we had it a year ago, when inflation was high and unemployment low, to a place that's more appropriate, given where we are now and where we expect to be. And that process will take place over time. There's nothing in the SEP that suggests the committee is in a rush to get this done. This process evolves over time. 

Of course, that's a projection, that's a baseline projection. We know, as I mentioned in my remarks, that the actual things that we do will depend on the way the economy evolves. We can go quicker, if that's appropriate. We can go slower, if that's appropriate. We can pause, if that's appropriate. But that's what we're contemplating. Again, I would point you to the SEP as just an assessment of what the committee is thinking today, but the individual members, rather, of the committee are thinking today, assuming that their particular forecasts are realized. 

Good, Chris. Hi, Chris Ruegeber, Associated Press. Thank you. The projections show that the Fed officials expect the Fed funds rate to still be above their estimate of long-run neutral by the end of next year. So does that suggest you see rates as restrictive for that entire period? Does that threaten the weakening of the job market that you said you'd like to avoid? Or does it suggest that maybe people see the short-run neutral as a little bit higher? Thank you. 

POWELL: I think the way I would really characterize it is this. I think people write down their estimate, individuals do. I think every single person on the committee, if you ask them what's your level of certainty around that, they would say there's a wide range where that could fall. So I think we don't know. There are model-based approaches and empirically-based approaches that estimate what the neutral rate will be at any given time. But realistically, we know it by its works. So that leaves us in a place where we expect, in the base case, to be continuing to remove restriction. And we'll be looking at the way the economy reacts to that. And that'll be guiding us in our thinking about the question that we're asking at every meeting, which is, is our policy stance the appropriate one? 

We know, if you go back, we know that the policy stance we adopted in July of 2023 came at a time when unemployment was 3.5% and inflation was 4.2%. Today, unemployment is up to 4.2%. Inflation is down to a few tenths above 2%. So we know that it is time to recalibrate our policy to something that is more appropriate, given the progress on inflation and on employment, moving to a more sustainable level, so that the balance of risks are now even. And this is the beginning of that process. I mentioned the direction of which is toward a sense of neutral. And we'll move as fast or as slow as we think is appropriate in real time. What you have is our individual accumulation of individual estimates of what that will be in the base case. 

Howard Schneider with Reuters. How close was this in terms of the decision? You do have the first dissent by a governor since 2005, I think. Was the weight clearly in favor of a 50, or was this a very close decision? 

POWELL: I think we had a good discussion. If you go back, I talked about this at Jackson Hole, but I didn't address the question of the size of the cut and left it open. And I think we left it open going into blackout. And so there was a lot of discussion back and forth. Good diversity of opinion. Excellent discussion today. I think there was also broad support for the decision that the committee voted on. 

I would add, though, look at the SEP. All 19 of the participants wrote down multiple cuts this year. All 19. That's a big change from June, right? Seven of them wrote down three or more. 17 of the 19 wrote down three or more cuts, and 10 of the 19 wrote down four or more cuts. So there is a dissent, and there's a range of views, but there's actually a lot of common ground as well. 

Follow up to that. Now that this is in the books, can you give us some guidance as sort of a follow-up to Steve on the pacing here? Would you expect this to be running every other meeting once we get into next year, for example? 

POWELL:  We're going to take it meeting by meeting. There's no sense that the committee feels it's in a rush to do this. We made a good, strong start to this, and that's really, frankly, a sign of our confidence. Confidence that inflation is coming down toward 2% on a sustainable basis. That gives us the ability. We can make a good, strong start. And I'm very pleased that we did. To me, the logic of this, both from an economic standpoint and also from a risk management standpoint, was clear. But I think we're going to go carefully meeting by meeting and make our decisions as we go. 

Gina. Hi, Chair Powell. Gina Smilick, The New York Times. Thanks for taking our questions. You and your colleagues in your economic projections today see the unemployment rate climbing to 4.4% and staying there. Obviously, historically, when the unemployment rate climbs that much over a relatively short period of time, it doesn't typically just stop. It continues increasing. And so I wonder if you can walk us through why you see the labor market stabilizing, what's the mechanism there, and what do you see as the risks? 

POWELL: So again, the labor market is actually in solid condition. And our intention with our policy move today is to keep it there. You can say that about the whole economy. The US economy is in good shape. It's growing at a solid pace. Inflation is coming down. The labor market is in a strong pace. We want to keep it there. That's what we're doing. 

Nick Timoroso, The Wall Street Journal. Chair Powell, does today's action constitute a catch-up in action given recent substantial revisions to the employment data? Or is this larger than typical rate cut, a function of the elevated nominal level of the policy rate such that an accelerated cadence could be expected to continue? 

POWELL: OK. Multiple questions. So I would say we don't think we're behind. We do not think we're behind. We think this is timely. But I think you can take this as a sign of our commitment not to get behind. So it's a strong move. Sorry, your other question was? 

Well, is this about what happened in the employment data between this meeting and the last meeting? Or is this about the level of the funds rate, the high nominal level of the funds rate, relative to what might be expected if you're trying to maintain equilibrium? 

POWELL: I think it's about, we come into this with a policy position that was put in place, as you know, I mentioned in July of 2023, which was a time of high inflation and very low unemployment. We've been very patient about reducing the policy rate. We've waited, other central banks around the world have cut many of them several times. We've waited. And I think that that patience has really paid dividends in the form of our confidence that inflation is moving sustainably under 2%. So I think that is what enables us to take this strong move today. 

I do not think that anyone should look at this and say, oh, this is the new pace. You have to think about it in terms of the base case. Of course, what happens will happen. So in the base case, what you see is, look at the SEP. You see cuts moving along. The sense of this is we're recalibrating policy down over time to a more neutral level. And we're moving at the pace that we think is appropriate given developments in the economy in the base case. The economy can develop in a way that would cause us to go faster or slower. But that's what the base case says. 

And then if I could follow up on the balance sheet. In 2019, when you did the mid-cycle adjustment, you ceased the balance sheet runoff. With a larger cut today, should there be any signal inferred about how the committee would approach end state on the balance sheet policy? 

POWELL: So in the current situation, reserves have really been stable. They haven't come down. So reserves are still abundant and expected to remain so for some time. As you know, the shrinkage in our balance sheet has really come out of the overnight RRP. So I think what that tells you is we're not thinking about stopping runoff because of this at all. We know that these two things can happen side by side. In a sense, they're both a form of normalization. And so for a time, you can have the balance sheet shrinking but also be cutting rates. 

Colby Smith with the Financial Times. Just following up on Gina's question on rising unemployment, is it your view that this is just a function of a normalizing labor market amid improved supply? Or is there anything to suggest that something more concerning perhaps is taking place here given that other metrics of labor demand have softened too? And I guess in direct follow up to Gina, why should we not expect a further deterioration in labor market conditions if policy is still restrictive? 

POWELL: So I think what we're seeing is clearly labor market conditions have cooled off by any measure, as I talked about in Jackson Hole. But they're still at a level. The level of those conditions is actually pretty close to what I would call maximum employment. So you're close to mandate, maybe at mandate on that. 

So what's driving it? Clearly, payroll job creation has moved down over the last few months. And this bears watching. By many other measures, the labor market has returned to or below 2019 levels, which was a very good, strong labor market. But this is more sort of 2018, 17. So the labor market bears close watching. And we'll be giving it that. 

But ultimately, we think, we believe, with an appropriate recalibration of our policy that we can continue to see the economy growing. And that will support the labor market. In the meantime, if you look at the growth in economic activity data, retail sales data that we just got, second quarter GDP, all of this indicates an economy that is still growing at a solid pace. So that should also support the labor market over time. But again, it bears watching, and we're watching.

And just on the point about starting to see rising layoffs, if that were to happen, wouldn't the committee already be too late in terms of avoiding a recession? 

So we're, that's, you know, our plan, of course, has been to begin to recalibrate and, as you know, we're not seeing rising claims, we're not seeing rising layoffs, we're not seeing that and we're not hearing that from companies, that that's something that's getting ready to happen. So we're not waiting for that. Because, you know, there, there is, there is thinking that the time to support the labor market is when, is when it's strong and not when you begin to see the layoffs. There's some lore on that. So that's the situation we're in. We have, in fact, begun the cutting cycle now and we'll be watching and that'll be one of the factors that we consider. Of course, we're going to look at the totality of the data as we make these decisions meeting by meeting. 

Michael McKeith with Bloomberg TV and radio. To follow up on that, what would constitute for you and the committee a deterioration in the labor market? You're pricing in, basically, by the end of next year, 200 basis points of cuts just to maintain a higher unemployment rate. Would you be moving to a more preemptive monetary policy style rather than, as you did with inflation, waiting until the data gave you a signal? 

POWELL: We're going to be watching all of the data, right? So if, if, as I mentioned in my remarks, if the labor market were to slow unexpectedly, then we have the ability to react to that by, by cutting faster. We're also going to be looking at, at our other mandate, though. We are more great, we have greater confidence now that inflation is moving down to 2%, but at the same time, our, our plan is that we will be at 2%, you know, over time, over time. 

So, and policy, we think, is still restrictive, so that should still be happening. I'm, I'm just curious as to how sensitive you'll be to the labor market since you forecast we are going to see higher unemployment and it is going to take a significant amount of monetary easing to just maintain it. So, you know, what, what I would say is, we, we don't think we need to see further loosening in labor market conditions to get inflation down to 2%, but we have a dual mandate and I think you can take this, this whole action as, take, take a step back. What have we been trying to achieve? We're trying to achieve a situation where we restore price stability without the kind of painful increase in unemployment that has come sometimes with this inflation. That's what we're trying to do. And I think you can take today's action as a sign of our strong commitment to achieve that goal. 

Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post. Thanks for taking our questions. You're describing this view that you don't think you're behind when it comes to the job market. Can you walk us through the specific data points that you found to be most helpful in the discussions at this meeting? You mentioned a couple, but would you be able to walk us through what that dashboard told you as far as what you know about the job market now? 

POWELL: Sure. So, we'll start with unemployment, which is the single most important one, probably. You're at 4.2%. That's you know, I know that's higher than we were, we were used to seeing numbers in the mid, mid and even below mid threes last year, but if you look back over the sweep of the years, that's a, that's a low, that's a very healthy unemployment rate. And anything in the low fours is, is a really, is a, is a good labor market. So that's one thing. Participation is at high levels. It's, you know, we, we've had, we're right, adjusted for demographics, for aging, participation is at, at pretty high levels. That's a good thing. Wages are still a bit above what would be their wage increases rather are still just a bit above where they would be over the very longer term to be consistent with 2% inflation, but they're very much coming down to what that sustainable level is, so we feel good about that. Vacancies over, you know, per unemployed is back to, but it's still a very strong level. It's not as high as it was. That number reached two to one, two vacancies for every unemployed person as measured. It's now below around, it's around one, but that's still, that's still a very good number, I would say. You know, quits have, have come back down to normal levels. I mean, that could go on and on. 

There are many, many employment indicators. What do they say? They say this is still a solid labor market. The question isn't the level, the question is that there has been change over, particularly over the last few months, and, you know, so we, what we say is, as the, as the risks, the upside risks to inflation have really come down, the downside risks to employment have increased, and, and, and because we have been patient and, and held our fire on cutting while inflate, while inflation has come down, I think we're now in a, in a very good position to manage the risks to, to both of our goals. 

And what do you expect to learn between now and November that will help inform the scale of the cut of the next meeting? 

POWELL: You know, more data, the usual. Don't look for anything else. We'll see another labor report. We'll see another jobs report. I think we get a, we might, we actually get two, we get a second jobs report on the day of the meeting, I think. No, no, on, on the Friday before the meeting. So, and inflation data, we'll get, we'll get all this data, we'll be watching, you know, it's always a question of look at the incoming data and, and ask what are the implications of that data for the evolving outlook and the balance of risks, and then go through our process and think what's the right thing to do. 

Is policy where we want it to be to foster the achievement of our goals over time? 

POWELL: So that's what it is, and that, that's what we'll be doing. 


Neal Irwin with Axios. We've only been running a little above 100,000 jobs a month on payroll the last three months. Do you view that level of job creation as worrying or alarming, or would you be, would you be content if we were to kind of stick at that level? And relatedly, you know, one of the welcome trends of the last couple of years has been labor market steam coming out through job openings falling rather than job losses. Do you think that trend has further to run, or do you see risk that further labor market cooling will have to come through job losses? 

POWELL: So on, on the, on the job creation, it depends on, it depends on the, the inflows, right? So if you're having millions of people come into the labor force then, and you're creating 100,000 jobs, you're going to see unemployment go up. So it really depends on what's the trend underlying the volatility of people coming into the country. As you understand, there's been quite an influx across the borders, and that has actually been one of the things that's, that's, that's allowed unemployment rate to rise, as, and the other thing is just the slower hiring rate, which is something we also watch carefully. So it, it does depend on, on what's happening on the supply side. 

And on, on the beverage curve question, yes, so we all felt on the committee, not all, but I think everyone on the committee felt that job openings were so elevated that they could fall a long way before you hit the part of the curve where job openings turned into higher unemployment, job loss. And yes, I, I mean, I think we are, it's hard to know that you can't know these things with great precision, but certainly it, it appears that we're very close to that point, if not at it. So that further declines in job openings will translate more directly into, into unemployment. But it's been, it's been a great ride down. I mean, we've seen a lot of, of, of tightness come out of the labor market in that form without it resulting in lower employment. 

Edward Lawrence, Fox Business. So we've heard some speculation that you may be going with the federal funds rate to three and a half, maybe under 4%, and there's basically an entire generation that has experienced zero or near zero federal funds rate. Now some think we're heading in that direction again. What's the likelihood that cheap money is now the norm? So this is a question, and you mean after we get through all of this? 

POWELL: It's just a great question that we just, we can only speculate about. Intuitively, most, many, many people anyway would say we're probably not going back to that era where there were trillions of dollars of sovereign bonds trading at negative rates, long-term bonds trading at negative rates. And it looked like the neutral rate might even be negative. So people were issuing debt at negative rates. It seems that's so far away now. 

My own sense is that we're not going back to that, but, you know, honestly, we're going to find out. But, you know, it feels, it feels to me that the neutral rate is probably significantly higher than it was back then. How high is it? I don't, I just don't think we know. It's, again, we only know it by its works. 

And one more. How do you respond to the criticism that will likely come that a deeper rate cut now before the election has some political motivations? 

Yeah, so, you know, this is my fourth presidential election at the, at the Fed, and, you know, it's always the same. We're always, we're always going into this meeting in particular and asking what's the right thing to do for the people we serve. And we do that, and we make a decision as a group, and then we announce it. And it's, that's always what it is. It's never about anything else. Nothing else is discussed. And I would also point out that the things that we do really affect economic conditions for the most part with, with a lag. So nonetheless, this is what we do. Our job is to support the economy on behalf of the American people. And if we get it right, this will benefit the American people significantly. So this really concentrates the mind, and, you know, it's something we all take very, very seriously. We don't put up any other filters. I think if you start doing that, I don't know where you stop. And so we just don't do that. 

JoLynn. Thank you, Chair Powell. I'm JoLynn Kent with CBS News. My first question is, very simply, what message are you trying to send American consumers, the American people, with this unusually large rate cut? 

POWELL: I would just say that, you know, the U.S. economy is in a good place, and, and our, our decision today is designed to keep it there. More specifically, the economy is growing at a solid pace. Inflation is coming down closer to our 2 percent objective over time. And the labor market is, is still in solid shape. So our, our intention is really to maintain the strength that we currently see in the U.S. economy. And we'll do that by returning rates from their high level, which has really been the purpose of which has been to get inflation under control. We're going to move those down over time to a more normal level over time. 

Just as a follow-up to that, listening to you talk about inflation moving meaningfully down to 2 percent, is the Federal Reserve effectively declaring a decisive victory over inflation and rising prices? 

No. We're not. So inflation, you know, what we say is we want inflation, the goal is to have inflation move down to 2 percent on a sustainable basis. And, you know, we're not really, we're close, but we're not really at 2 percent. And I think we're going to want to see it be, you know, around 2 percent and close to 2 percent for some time. But we're certainly not doing, we're not, we're not saying mission accomplished or anything like that. But I have to say, though, we're encouraged by the progress that we have made. 

Hi, Katerina Seraivo with Bloomberg News. I just would love to know kind of how the committee is thinking about the persistence we've seen in housing inflation. You know, do you think you can return to 2 percent with housing inflation where it is? 

POWELL: Yeah. So, housing inflation is the one piece that is kind of dragging a bit, if I can say. We know that market rents are doing what we would want them to do, which is to be moving up at relatively low levels. But they're not rolling over, the leases that are rolling over are not coming down as much and OER is coming in high. So, you know, it's been slower than we expected. I think we now understand that it's going to take some time for those lower market rents to get into this. 
But, you know, the direction of travel is clear. And as long as market rents remain, you know, relatively low inflation over time, that will show up. Just the time it's taking now, several years rather than just one or two cycles of annual lease renewals. So, that's – I think we understand that now, but I don't think the outcome is in doubt. Again, as long as market rents remain under control, the outcome is not in doubt. So, I would say it's – the rest of the portfolio of the elements that go into core PCE inflation have behaved pretty well. You know, they all have some volatility. We will get down to 2 percent inflation, I believe. And I believe that ultimately we'll get what we need to get out of the housing services piece too. 

Some of your colleagues have expressed concern that with starting to cut rates, you could reignite demand in housing and see prices go up even more. You know, what's the likelihood of that and how would you react to that? 

POWELL: The housing market – it's hard to gain that out. The housing market is in part frozen because of lock-in with low rates. People don't want to sell their homes because they have a very low mortgage. It would be quite expensive to refinance. As rates come down, people will start to move more and that's probably beginning to happen already. But remember, when that happens, you've got a seller, but you've also got a new buyer in many cases. So, it's not obvious how much additional demand that would make. The real issue with housing is that we have had and are on track to continue to have not enough housing. And so, it's going to be challenging. It's hard to find – to zone lots that are in places where people want to live. All of the aspects of housing are more and more difficult. And you know, where are we going to get the supply? And this is not something that the Fed can really fix. I think as we normalize rates, you'll see the housing market normalize. And I mean, ultimately, by getting inflation broadly down and getting those rates normalized and getting the housing cycle normalized, that's the best thing we can do for householders. And then, the supply question will have to be dealt with by the market and also by government. 

Victoria? Hi, Victoria Aguido with Politico. Just following up on some of the labor market talk earlier, you know, monetary policy operates with long and variable lags. And I'm wondering how much you see being able to keep the unemployment rate from raising too much comes from the fact that you're starting to act now and that's going to give people more room to run versus just the labor market is strong. And then also, if I could, following up on Nick's question, do you see today's 50 basis point move as partially a response to the fact that you didn't cut in July and that sort of gets you to the same place? 

POWELL: So you're right about lags, but I would just point to the overall economy. You have an economy that is growing at a solid pace. If you look at forecasters or talk to companies, they'll say that they think 2025 should be a good year too. So there's no sense that the U.S. economy is basically fine. If you talk to market participants, I mean, you know, business people who are actually out there doing business. So I think, you know, I think our move is timely. I do. And as I said, you can see our 50 basis point move as a commitment to make sure that we don't fall behind. So you're really asking about your second question. You're asking about July. And I guess if you ask, you know, if we'd gotten the July report before the meeting, would we have cut? We might well have. We didn't make that decision, but, you know, we might well have. I think that's not, you know, that doesn't really answer the question that we ask ourselves, which is let's look, you know, at this meeting, we're looking back to the July employment report, the August employment report, the two CPI reports, one of which came, of course, during blackout. And all of the other things that I mentioned, we're looking at all of those things and we're asking ourselves, what's the right, what's the policy stance we need to move to? We knew, it's clear that we clearly, literally everyone on the committee agreed that it's time to move. It's just how big, how fast do you go and what do you think about the path forward? So this decision we made today had broad support on the committee and I've discussed the path ahead. 

Elizabeth. Thank you, Chair Powell, Elizabeth Schultz with ABC News. Mortgage rates have already been dropping in anticipation of this announcement. How much more should borrowers expect those rates to drop over the next year? 

POWELL: Very hard for me to say. That's, from our standpoint, I can't really speak to mortgage rates. I will say, you know, that will depend on how the economy evolves. Our intention, though, is we think that our policy was appropriately restrictive. We think that it's time to begin the process of recalibrating it to a level that's more neutral rather than restrictive. We expect that process to take some time, as you can see in the projections that we released today. And as, if things work out according to that forecast, other rates in the economy will come down as well. However, the rate at which those things happen will really depend on how the economy performs. We can't look a year ahead and know what the economy is going to be doing.

What's your message to households who are frustrated that home prices have still stayed so high as rates have been high? What do you say to those households? 

POWELL: Well, what I can say to the public is that we had the highest, we had a burst of inflation. Many other countries around the world had a similar burst of inflation. And when that happens, part of the answer is that we raise interest rates in order to cool the economy off in order to reduce inflationary pressures. It's not something that people experience as pleasant, but at the end, what you get is low inflation restored, price stability restored. 
And a good definition of price stability is that people in their daily decisions, they're not thinking about inflation anymore. That's where everyone wants to be, is back to what's inflation. Just keep it low, keep it stable. We're restoring that. So what we're going through now really restores, it will benefit people over a long period of time. Price stability benefits everybody over a long period of time just by virtue of the fact that they don't have to deal with inflation. So that's what's been going on. And I think we've made real progress. I completely, we don't tell people how to think about the economy, of course. And of course, people are experiencing high prices as opposed to high inflation. And we understand that's painful. 

Greg. Hi, Chair Powell. Greg Robb from MarketWatch.com. I was wondering if you could go through, you said just at the beginning that coming into the blackout, there was like an open thought of 25 or 50, you know, the Fed could move either 25 or 50. 

POWELL: I would sort of argue that when we had those two last speeches by Governor Waller and New York Fed President John Williams, that they were sort of saying that maybe a gradual approach was going to win the day. 

I mean, I sort of want to ask a seven-part question about this, but I mean, could you talk, would you have cut rates by 50 basis points if the market had been pricing in like low odds of a 50-point move like they were last Wednesday, you know, after the CPI number came out?  It was a really small probability of a 50-point cut. Does that play in your consideration at all? 

POWELL: Just talk a little bit about that. Thank you. You know, we're always going to try to do what we think is the right thing for the economy at that time. That's what we'll do. And that's what we did today. 

Simon. Thank you, Chair Powell. Simon Urbinovich with The Economist. You've mentioned how closely you're watching the labor market, but you also noted that payroll numbers have been a little bit less reliable lately because of the big downward revisions. Does that put your focus overwhelmingly on the unemployment rate? And given the SEP projection of 4.4 basically being the peak in the cycle, would going above that be the kind of thing that would trigger another 50 basis point cut? 

POWELL: So we will continue to look at that broad array of labor market data, including the payroll numbers. We're not discarding those. I mean, we'll certainly look at those, but we will mentally tend to adjust them based on the QCEW adjustment, which you referred to. There isn't a bright line. You know, it will be – the unemployment rate's very important, of course, but there isn't a single statistic or a single bright line over which that thing – that might move that would dictate one thing or another. We'll look at each meeting. We'll look at all the data on inflation, economic activity, and the labor market, and we'll make decisions about is our policy stance where it needs to be to foster over the medium term our mandate goals. So I can't say we have a bright line in mind. 

And Matt Egan? Thanks, Chair Powell. Matt Egan from CNN. I know that you discussed earlier how the Fed does whatever the right thing is and nothing else factors in. But in general, can you talk about whether or not you believe a sitting U.S. president should have a say in Fed decisions on interest rates? Because that's something that former President Trump, who obviously appointed you, has previously suggested. And I know the Fed is designed to be independent, but why? Can you tell the public why you view that so important? 

POWELL: Sure. Countries that are democracies around the world, countries that are sort of like the United States, all have what are called independent central banks. And the reason is that people have found over time that insulating the central bank from direct control by political authorities avoids making monetary policy in a way that favors maybe people who are in office as opposed to people who are not in office. So that's the idea. I think the data are clear that countries that have independent central banks, they get lower inflation. So we do our work to serve all Americans. We're not serving any politician, any political figure, any cause, any issue, nothing. It's just maximum employment and price stability on behalf of all Americans. And that's how the other central banks are set up, too. It's a good institutional arrangement, which has been good for the public. And I hope and strongly believe that it will continue. 

Kyle. Kyle Campbell for American Banker. Thanks for taking the questions, Chair Powell. A couple regulatory developments in the past week that I want to ask you about. First, last week, Vice Chair for Supervision, Michael Barr, outlined his views for the changes to the Basel III endgame. I'm wondering if you are in alignment with him on what those changes should be, if those have support on the board in a broad way that you're looking for, and if you think the other agencies are also fully on board with that approach. And then yesterday, other banking regulators... You know what? Hold the second question. 

Okay, sure. Let me... We'll give you the second question. The answer to your question is that yes, those changes were negotiated between the agencies with my support and with my involvement, with the idea that we were going to repropose the changes that Vice Chair Barr talked about and then take comment on them. So, yes, that's happening with my support. Is there a date for that? That's not a final proposal, though, you understand. We're putting them out for comment. We're going to take comment and make appropriate changes. We don't have a calendar date for that. And as for the other agencies, the idea is that we're all moving together. We're not moving separately. So I don't know exactly where that is, but the idea is that we will move as a group to put this, again, out for comment. And then the comments will come back 60 days later, and we'll dive into them, and we'll try to bring this to a conclusion sometime in the first half of next year. Right. And then yesterday, there were merger reform finalizations from the other bank regulators. What does the Fed have to do to align itself on merger? You know, I would bounce that question to Vice Chair Barr. It's a good question, but I don't have that today. Thanks. Okay. 

Jennifer Schonberger with Yahoo Finance. You said earlier that the decision today reflects with appropriate recalibration strength in the labor market that can be maintained in the context of moderate growth, even though the policy statement says you view the risks to inflation and job growth as roughly balanced. Given what you've said, though, today, I'm curious. Are you more worried about the job market and growth than inflation? Are they not roughly balanced? 

POWELL: No, I think, and we think they are now roughly balanced. So if you go back for a long time, the risks were on inflation. We had a historically tight labor market, historically tight. There was a severe labor shortage, so very hot labor market. And we had inflation way above target. You know, that said to us, concentrate on inflation, concentrate on inflation. And we did for a while, and we kept at that. The stance that we put in place 14 months ago was a stance that was focused on bringing down inflation. 

Part of bringing down inflation, though, is cooling off the economy and a little bit cooling off the labor market. You now have a cooler labor market in part because of our activity. So what that tells you is it's time to change our stance. So we did that. The sense of the change in the stance is that we're recalibrating our policy over time to a stance that will be more neutral. And today was, I think, we made a good, strong start on that. I think it was the right decision, and I think it should send a signal that we're committed to coming up with a good outcome here. 
Is the economy more vulnerable to a shock now that could tip it into recession? I don't think so. As I look, well, let me look at it this way. I don't see anything in the economy right now that suggests that the likelihood of a recession, sorry, of a downturn is elevated. Okay? I don't see that. You see growth at a solid rate. You see inflation coming down, and you see a labor market that's still at very solid levels. So I don't really see that, no. 
###
こんにちは。私と私の同僚たちは、アメリカ国民の利益のために最大限の雇用と安定した物価という2つの目標を達成することに、引き続き全力を注いでいます。わが国の経済は全体として堅調であり、過去2年間で目標に向けて著しい進展を遂げました。労働市場は以前の過熱状態から落ち着きを取り戻しています。インフレ率はピーク時の7%から大幅に低下し、8月時点では推定2.2%となっています。私たちは、最大限の雇用を支援し、インフレ率を2%の目標に戻すことで、経済の堅調さを維持していく所存です。

本日、連邦公開市場委員会は、政策金利を0.5%引き下げることにより、政策の抑制度を緩和することを決定しました。この決定は、政策スタンスを適切に調整すれば、労働市場の強さが維持され、緩やかな成長と持続的なインフレ率の2%への低下が実現できるという我々の自信の高まりを反映したものです。また、保有証券の削減を継続することも決定しました。経済情勢を簡単に振り返った後、金融政策についてさらに詳しく述べたいと思います。

最近の指標は、経済活動が堅調なペースで拡大を続けていることを示唆しています。今年前半のGDPは年率2.2%で増加し、入手可能なデータは、今四半期もほぼ同様のペースで成長していることを示しています。個人消費の伸びは依然として堅調であり、設備や無形資産への投資は、昨年の低調なペースから回復しています。住宅部門では、第1四半期に大幅に増加した後、第2四半期には投資が減少しました。供給状況の改善が堅調な需要を支え、過去1年間の米国経済の好調なパフォーマンスを支えてきました。経済予測のまとめでは、委員会参加者は概ね、今後数年間はGDP成長率が2%の中央値予測で堅調に推移すると予想しています。労働市場では、状況は引き続き冷え込んでいます。

過去3ヶ月間の雇用者数の増加は月平均11万6千人で、年初のペースから大幅に鈍化しました。失業率は上昇しましたが、4.2%と依然として低水準です。名目賃金の伸びは過去1年間で鈍化し、求人数と労働者数のギャップは縮小しました。全体として、幅広い指標が労働市場の状況は2019年のパンデミック直前よりも逼迫していないことを示唆している。労働市場はインフレ圧力の高まりをもたらす源ではない。SEPにおける失業率の中央値予測は、今年末で4.4%となっており、6月の予測よりも4分の1高い。

インフレ率は過去2年間で大幅に低下したが、依然としてFRBの長期目標である2%を上回っている。消費者物価指数(CPI)やその他のデータに基づく推計によると、8月までの12ヶ月間における個人消費支出(PCE)価格は2.2%上昇し、変動の激しい食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアPCE価格は2.7%上昇した。長期的なインフレ期待は、家計、企業、および予測者に対する広範な調査や金融市場の指標に反映されているように、依然として十分に抑制されているようです。個人消費支出(PCE)全体のインフレ率に関する9月見通し(SEP)の中央値は、今年が2.3%、来年が2.1%と、6月の予測よりもやや低くなっています。その後は、中央値の予測は2%となっています。

FRBの金融政策は、米国国民のために最大限の雇用と安定した物価を促進するという二重の責務に基づいて決定されます。過去3年間の大半において、インフレ率はFRBの目標である2%を大きく上回り、労働市場の状況は極度に逼迫していました。

私たちはインフレ抑制に主眼を置いており、それは適切な対応であった。高インフレは購買力を低下させ、特に食料品、住宅、交通機関といった必需品の価格上昇に最も対応できない人々にとって、大きな苦痛をもたらすことを私たちは痛感している。私たちの引き締め効果のある金融政策は、総需要と総供給のバランスを回復させ、インフレ圧力を緩和し、インフレ期待を適切に維持するのに役立っている。また、辛抱強く対応するアプローチにより、インフレ率は2.3%まで低下した。

この1年間の辛抱強いアプローチが功を奏しました。インフレ率は目標値にかなり近づいており、インフレ率が2%に向けて持続的に推移しているという確信が深まっています。インフレ率が低下し、労働市場が冷え込むにつれ、インフレ率の上振れリスクは低下し、雇用への下振れリスクは高まりました。現在、雇用とインフレの目標達成に向けたリスクはほぼ均衡していると見ています。そして、私たちは、私たちの二重の使命の両側面におけるリスクに注意を払っています。

インフレの進展とリスクのバランスを考慮し、本日の会合において、委員会はFF金利の誘導目標を0.5%引き下げ、4.75%から5%とすることに決定しました。政策スタンスの再調整は、経済と労働市場の強さを維持し、より中立的なスタンスへと移行するプロセスを開始する中で、インフレのさらなる進展を可能にするでしょう。

私たちはあらかじめ決められたコースを歩んでいるわけではありません。私たちは今後も会合ごとに決定を行っていきます。政策の抑制を急激に緩和しすぎると、インフレの進展を妨げる可能性があることを私たちは認識しています。同時に、抑制を緩和するペースが遅すぎると、経済活動や雇用が過度に弱まる可能性があります。FF金利の目標レンジに対するさらなる調整を検討するにあたり、委員会は今後発表されるデータ、変化する見通し、およびリスクのバランスを慎重に評価していきます。

FOMC参加者は、SEPの中で、今後起こりうるシナリオとして各自が判断した内容に基づき、FF金利の適切な水準についての各自の見解を書き記しました。経済が予想通りに推移した場合、参加者の中央値では、FF金利の適切な水準は年末には4.4%、2025年末には3.4%になると予測されています。これらの中央値予測は6月よりも低く、インフレ率の低下と失業率の上昇、および変化するリスクのバランスを反映したものです。

ただし、これらの予測は委員会の計画や決定ではない。経済が変化するにつれ、金融政策は、最大限の雇用と物価安定という目標を最大限に促進するように調整される。経済が堅調な状態を維持し、インフレが持続する場合には、金融引き締めをよりゆっくりと緩和することができる。

労働市場が予想外に弱含み、あるいはインフレ率が予想以上に急速に低下した場合、我々は対応する用意がある。政策は、我々が二つの使命を遂行する上で直面するリスクや不確実性に対処する上で、適切な位置づけにある。

FRBには、金融政策に関して2つの目標が定められています。すなわち、最大限の雇用と物価の安定です。私たちは引き続き、最大限の雇用を支援し、インフレ率を2%の目標まで引き下げ、長期的なインフレ期待を適切に維持することに全力を尽くします。これらの目標を達成することの成功は、すべてのアメリカ人に影響します。私たちの行動が、全国の地域社会、家庭、企業に影響を与えることを理解しています。私たちの行動はすべて、私たちの公共の使命に奉仕するものです。FRBは最大限の雇用と物価安定の目標を達成するために全力を尽くします。ありがとうございました。ご質問をお待ちしております。

スティーブ・ライゼン、CNBC。議長、私たちの質問にお答えいただきありがとうございます。7月には、必ずしも50%について考えているわけではないと仰っていました。具体的な数字を挙げたくはないが、50%について考えていないと。先週発表されたインフレデータは予想よりもやや堅調でした。小売業は好調で、第3四半期のGDPは3%でした。では、何が変化したために委員会は50%に踏み切ったのでしょうか? また、FRBが労働市場により懸念を抱いていることを示すのではないかという懸念にどう答えますか? 労働市場で50%の増加を期待すべきでしょうか? もしそうであれば、それに対してどう答えますか? 今後数ヶ月で50%の増加を期待すべきでしょうか? また、何を根拠にそう判断すべきでしょうか? 

パウエル:ありがとうございます。さて、たくさんの質問がありますね。では、始めます。前回の会合以来、多くのデータが寄せられました。7月と8月の雇用報告が2件ありました。また、ブラックアウト中に発表されたものも含め、インフレ報告が2件ありました。労働市場では50%の増加が見られるというQCEW報告書もありました。これは、おそらく、というより確実に、雇用者数報告書の数値は人為的に高められている可能性があり、下方修正されるだろうということを示唆しています。ベージュブックのような事例データも見ています。そして、それらすべてを考慮した上で、ブラックアウトに入り、どうすべきかを考え、これが経済にとって、また我々が奉仕する国民にとって正しいことだと結論づけ、そのように決定しました。以上が1つ目の質問です。2つ目と3つ目はどのような内容でしたか? 

どうすればいいのでしょうか、すみません、ありがとうございます。今後数ヶ月で、25または50が新たに流入してくるかどうかを、何を根拠に判断すればいいのでしょうか? 

パウエル:そうですね、いくつかあります。まず始めに、SEP(経済政策声明)についてお話ししたいと思います。SEPをご覧いただければお分かりいただけると思いますが、これは政策スタンスを調整するプロセスであり、インフレ率が高く失業率が低かった1年前のスタンスから、現在の状況と今後の見通しを踏まえたより適切なスタンスへと移行するものです。このプロセスは時間をかけて行われます。SEPには、委員会が急いでこれを終わらせようとしていることを示すものは何もありません。このプロセスは時間をかけて進化していきます。

もちろん、これは予測であり、基本的な予測です。先ほど申し上げたように、実際の行動は経済の展開次第であることは分かっています。適切な場合、より迅速に進めることもできます。適切な場合、よりゆっくり進めることもできます。適切な場合、一時停止することもできます。しかし、私たちはそのようなことを検討しています。繰り返しになりますが、SEPはあくまで委員会が今日考えていることの評価にすぎませんが、むしろ委員会の各委員は、それぞれの予測が実現することを前提に、今日考えているのです。

よくできました、クリス。こんにちは、クリス・ルーゲバー(AP通信)です。ありがとうございます。予測によると、FRB当局者は来年いっぱいはフェデラル・ファンド金利が長期中立金利の推定値を上回る水準にとどまると見込んでいます。ということは、その間ずっと金利が引き締め効果を持つと見ているということでしょうか? そうなると、回避したいとおっしゃっていた雇用市場の低迷を招く恐れがあるということでしょうか? あるいは、短期中立金利がもう少し高いと見ている人が多いということでしょうか? ありがとうございます。

パウエル:私が思うに、それを端的に表現するならこうです。人々は予測を立てますが、それは個人でも同じです。委員会のメンバー一人一人に、その予測の確実性について尋ねれば、その幅は広いと答えるでしょう。ですから、私たちは知らないのです。モデルに基づくアプローチや経験に基づくアプローチによって、現時点で中立金利がどの程度になるかを予測することは可能です。しかし現実的には、実際の動きから判断するしかありません。 つまり、ベースケースでは、引き続き引き締め効果を緩和していくことになるでしょう。 そして、経済がそれに対してどう反応するかを注視していくことになります。 そして、その反応が、私たちが毎回会合で問うている問題、つまり、私たちの政策スタンスは適切なものなのかという問いに対する考え方を導いてくれるでしょう。

振り返ってみれば、2023年7月に採用した政策スタンスは、失業率が3.5%、インフレ率が4.2%の時期でした。今日、失業率は4.2%に上昇しています。インフレ率は2%を若干上回る程度にまで低下しています。つまり、インフレと雇用がより持続可能な水準へと進展し、リスクのバランスが均衡しつつある現時点で、より適切な政策へと調整する余念がないということです。そして、これがそのプロセスの始まりです。ニュートラルな状態に向かうという方向性を述べました。そして、我々はリアルタイムで適切だと考える速度で、速くも遅くも動くでしょう。皆さんが持っているのは、ベースケースでどうなるかについての我々の個々の予測の積み重ねです。

ロイターのハワード・シュナイダーです。今回の決定はどの程度近いものでしたか?2005年以来、初めての反対票が投じられたと思いますが。50の支持が圧倒的だったのか、それとも非常に僅差の決定だったのでしょうか? 

パウエル: 私たちは良い議論ができたと思います。 振り返ってみると、私はジャクソンホールでこの件について話しましたが、利下げ幅については言及せず、その問題については保留としました。 そして、利下げについてはブラックアウトまで保留としました。 そのため、多くの意見が交わされました。 さまざまな意見が交わされたことは良いことです。 きょうの議論は素晴らしかったと思います。 委員会が投票で決定した内容については、幅広い支持があったと思います。

ただし、SEPに注目すべきであると付け加えたいと思います。参加した19名全員が、今年、複数の利下げを書き出しました。19名全員です。これは6月からの大きな変化ですね。そのうち7名は3つ以上の利下げを書き出しました。19名中17名が3つ以上の利下げを書き出し、19名中10名が4つ以上の利下げを書き出しました。意見の相違やさまざまな見解がある一方で、実際には多くの共通点もあります。

そのフォローアップについて。この件が議事録に記載された今、スティーブのペースについて、フォローアップとして私たちにいくつか指針を示していただけますか?例えば、来年に入ったら、隔月の会議として実施する予定でしょうか? 

パウエル: 会議ごとに検討していくつもりだ。委員会が急いでいるという感覚はない。我々はこれについて良い、力強いスタートを切った。これは率直に言って、我々の自信の表れだ。インフレ率が持続可能な形で2%に向かって低下しているという自信だ。それが我々に能力を与えてくれる。我々は良い、力強いスタートを切ることができる。そして、そのようにできたことを非常に喜んでいる。私にとって、この論理は経済的な観点からもリスク管理の観点からも明らかでした。しかし、私たちは会合ごとに慎重に検討を重ね、その都度決定していくことになると思います。

ジーナ こんにちは、パウエル議長。ニューヨーク・タイムズのジーナ・スミリックです。質問の機会をいただきありがとうございます。現時点で、あなたとあなたの同僚の方々は、失業率が4.4%まで上昇し、その水準で推移すると予測しています。 歴史上、失業率が比較的短期間でこれほど上昇した際には、通常、失業率はそれ以上上昇しない傾向にあります。 失業率は上昇を続けるのです。そこで、労働市場が安定化すると考える理由、そのメカニズム、そしてリスクについて説明していただけますか? 

パウエル:繰り返しになりますが、労働市場は実際、堅調な状態にあります。そして、本日の方針転換の意図は、それを維持することにあります。経済全体についても同じことが言えます。米国経済は良好な状態にあります。堅調なペースで成長しています。インフレ率は低下しています。労働市場は堅調なペースで推移しています。それを維持したいと考えています。それが私たちのやっていることです。

ウォールストリート・ジャーナル紙、ニック・ティモロソ氏。パウエル議長、今日の措置は、最近の雇用データの大幅な修正を踏まえた、遅れを取り戻すための措置ということでしょうか?それとも、これは通常の利下げよりも大規模なもので、政策金利の公称水準が高いため、加速したペースが今後も継続すると考えられる措置なのでしょうか? 

パウエル:わかりました。複数の質問ですね。ですから、私たちは遅れているとは思っていません。遅れているとは思っていません。現時点で適切だと考えています。しかし、これは遅れをとらないという私たちの決意の表れだと受け取っていただいて結構です。ですから、これは強い動きです。申し訳ありませんが、もう一つの質問は何でしたか? 

ええと、これは雇用統計で前回と今回で何が起こったかということですか?それとも、均衡を維持しようとした場合に予想される水準と比較した、名目上の資金金利の水準が高いことについてですか? 

パウエル:私は、我々は政策上の立場からこの問題に取り組んでいると思います。ご存知のように、私は2023年7月に、現時点でインフレ率が高く、失業率が非常に低い時期であると述べました。政策金利の引き下げについては、非常に辛抱強く待ってきました。世界中の他の中央銀行の多くが何度も利下げを行っている中、私たちは待ったのです。そして、その辛抱強さが実を結び、インフレ率が2%以下で持続的に推移しているという確信につながったのだと思います。だからこそ、本日、このような強力な措置を取ることができたのだと思います。

私は、これをみて「これが新たなペースだ」などと言う人がいるとは思わない。ベースラインの観点から考える必要がある。もちろん、何が起こるかは起こる。ベースラインでは、SEPを見れば、利下げが継続していることが分かる。これは、時間をかけて政策をより中立的な水準に調整していくという感覚だ。そして、ベースケースにおける経済の動向を踏まえて、適切なペースで動いています。経済は、より速く、あるいはよりゆっくりと進むような形で発展する可能性があります。しかし、それがベースケースが示すものです。

それでは、バランスシートについて補足させてください。2019年に中間期の調整を行った際、バランスシートの縮小を停止しました。本日、より大幅な利下げを行いましたが、委員会がバランスシート政策の最終的な状態にどのようにアプローチするかについて、何か示唆するものはありますか? 

パウエル: 現在の状況では、準備高は本当に安定しています。 減少していません。 準備高は依然として潤沢であり、しばらくの間はそうあり続けると予想されます。 ご存じのように、私たちのバランスシートの縮小は、オーバーナイトRRPから生じています。 ですから、このことから言えることは、私たちは現時点で縮小を止めることはまったく考えていないということです。 私たちは、この2つのことが並行して起こり得ることを知っています。ある意味では、どちらも正常化の一形態です。現時点でバランスシートの圧縮と利下げを並行して行うことは可能です。

フィナンシャル・タイムズのコルビー・スミスです。失業率上昇に関するジーナの質問について、もう少し詳しくお聞きしたいのですが、これは供給の改善に伴う労働市場の正常化によるものだと、あなたの見解では考えますか? それとも、労働需要の他の指標も軟化していることを考えると、おそらくもっと深刻なことが起こっていると示唆するものはありますか? また、ジーナへの直接的な質問の続きになりますが、政策が依然として引き締め効果を持っているのであれば、労働市場の状況がさらに悪化する可能性をなぜ想定すべきではないのでしょうか? 

パウエル: 私たちが目撃しているのは、ジャクソンホールで私が述べたように、労働市場の状況がどのような指標で測っても明らかに冷え込んでいるということです。しかし、それは依然としてあるレベルにあります。その状況のレベルは、私が言うところの「最大雇用」にかなり近いものです。つまり、その状況は「強制」に近い、あるいは「強制」そのものなのかもしれません。

では、何がそれを後押ししているのでしょうか? 雇用者数の増加は、ここ数か月で明らかに減速しています。 これは注視する必要があります。 他の多くの指標では、労働市場は2019年の水準に戻っているか、あるいはそれを下回っています。 2019年は非常に良好で、力強い労働市場でした。 しかし、これはどちらかというと2018年、17年の水準です。 ですから、労働市場は注意深く見守る必要があります。 私たちはそうします。

しかし最終的には、適切な政策の再調整を行えば、経済成長を継続できると私たちは考えています。そして、それは労働市場を支えるでしょう。一方で、経済活動の成長データ、小売売上高のデータ、第2四半期のGDPなどを見ると、すべてが依然として堅調なペースで成長している経済を示しています。したがって、労働市場も長期的には支えられるはずです。しかし、やはり注視していく必要があります。そして、私たちは注視しています。

レイオフの増加が見られ始めたという点についてですが、もしそのようなことが起こった場合、委員会はすでに不況を回避するには遅すぎるということにはならないでしょうか? 

ですから、もちろん、私たちの計画は、再調整を始めることでした。ご存じのように、私たちは失業保険申請件数の増加も、レイオフの増加も、そういった兆候は見られていませんし、企業からもそういった兆候は聞いていません。ですから、私たちはそれを待っているわけではありません。なぜなら、労働市場を支援すべき時期は、労働市場が好調なときであって、レイオフが始まってからではないという考え方があるからです。これについては、いくつかの言い伝えがあります。これが私たちの置かれている状況です。実際、私たちは今、利下げサイクルを開始しており、今後はそれを注視し、考慮すべき要因の一つとしていきます。もちろん、会議ごとに決定を下す際には、データの全体像を考慮します。

ブルームバーグTVおよびラジオのマイケル・マキース氏。 それに関連して、労働市場の悪化とは、あなたや委員会にとってどのような状況を指すのでしょうか? あなたは基本的に、失業率の高止まりを維持するためだけに、来年末までに200ベーシスポイントの利下げを織り込んでいます。 インフレ対策としてデータが示すシグナルを待つのではなく、より先を見越した金融政策に転換するおつもりですか? 

パウエル:我々はあらゆるデータを注視していくつもりです。ですから、もし私が発言で述べたように、労働市場が予想外に減速した場合、より迅速な利下げによってそれに対応する能力があります。 また、私たちは他の責務についても注視していくつもりです。 インフレ率が2%まで低下していることに、私たちはより自信を持っていますが、同時に、私たちの計画では、時間をかけて、時間をかけて2%に達する予定です。

ですから、政策は依然として引き締め効果があると考えており、今後もその状態が続くはずです。失業率が上昇し、それを維持するだけでもかなりの金融緩和が必要になるという見通しを立てているので、労働市場にどれほど敏感になるのか、私は興味があります。つまり、私が言いたいのは、労働市場の状況をさらに緩和しなくても、インフレ率を2%に引き下げられると考えていますが、我々には2つの責務があり、今回の措置全体を、一歩後退したものと捉えることもできると思います。我々はこれまで何を達成しようとしてきたのか? インフレに伴って時折発生するような、痛みを伴う失業率の増加を伴うことなく、物価安定を回復する状況を作り出すことを目指してきたのです。 それが我々の目指すところです。 そして、今日の措置は、その目標を達成するという我々の強い決意の表れであると受け止めていただいて結構です。

ワシントン・ポストのレイチェル・シーゲルです。ご質問に答えていただきありがとうございます。あなたは、労働市場に関しては遅れをとっているとは思わないという見解を述べていますね。今回の会合での議論に最も役立ったと思われる具体的なデータについて説明していただけますか?あなたはいくつか例を挙げましたが、これまであなたが知っていた労働市場に関するデータの中で、ダッシュボードがあなたに何を伝えたのか説明していただけますか? 

パウエル:そうですね。では、まず失業率についてお話します。これはおそらく最も重要な問題でしょう。現在、失業率は4.2%です。これは、昨年は3%台半ばから後半の数字が普通だったことを考えると、高い水準ですが、長期的に見てみると、これは低い水準であり、非常に健全な失業率です。4%台前半であれば、労働市場は非常に良好であるといえます。これが1つです。労働参加率は高い水準にあります。つまり、人口動態や高齢化を考慮した上で、労働参加率はかなり高い水準にあるということです。これは良い傾向です。賃金は、長期的に2%のインフレ率と一致する水準からまだ少し上回っていますが、持続可能な水準にかなり近づいています。求人倍率は、失業者1人当たりの求人数で、以前の水準に戻りましたが、依然として非常に高い水準です。かつてほどの高水準ではありません。失業者2人に対して求人が1件という求人倍率に達したこともありました。現在は1倍前後まで下がっていますが、それでもまだ非常に良い数値だと言えるでしょう。退職者数も正常な水準に戻ってきています。つまり、この傾向は今後も続くでしょう。

雇用に関する指標は数多くあります。それらは何を示しているのでしょうか? これらは依然として堅調な労働市場であることを示しています。問題は水準ではなく、特にここ数か月の間に変化があったことです。ですから、私たちが言っているのは、インフレの上振れリスクが実際に低下した一方で、 雇用への下方リスクが高まっている。そして、我々は辛抱強く、インフレ率が下がる間は利下げを見送ってきたため、今、両方の目標に対するリスクを管理する上で非常に有利な立場にあると思う。

そして、11月までに次の会合での利下げの規模を判断するのに役立つような情報は得られると思いますか? 

パウエル: そうですね、より多くのデータ、通常通りです。 それ以上のものは期待しないでください。 また労働市場報告書が発表されます。 また雇用報告書も発表されます。 2つ、つまり2回目の雇用報告書が会議当日に発表されると思います。 いいえ、いいえ、会議前日の金曜日に発表されます。インフレデータも、これらのデータもすべて入手し、注視していくことになるでしょう。私たちは常に、入手したデータを見て、そのデータが変化する見通しやリスクのバランスにどのような影響を与えるかを考え、そして、私たちのプロセスに従って、何をすべきかを考えるのです。

政策は、長期的に目標達成を促進するようなものになっているでしょうか? 

パウエル:それが現状であり、そして、それが私たちがやろうとしていることです。


ニール・アーウィン(Axios) 過去3ヶ月間、雇用者数は毎月10万人強で推移しています。この雇用創出の水準について、あなたは懸念すべきことだと考えていますか?それとも、この水準で推移すれば満足でしょうか?また、関連して、ここ数年の好ましい傾向のひとつに、労働市場の活況が求人の減少ではなく、むしろ求人の増加という形で現れていることが挙げられます。この傾向は今後も続くとお考えですか、それとも、労働市場のさらなる冷え込みは失業という形で現れるというリスクがあるとお考えですか? 

パウエル:雇用創出については、流入に依存する部分が大きいですね。何百万人もの人々が労働力に加わり、10万の雇用が創出されると、失業率は上昇します。つまり、国内に流入する人々の変動の根底にあるトレンドに依存するということです。ご存知のように、国境全体に渡ってかなりの数の流入がありました。そして、それが実際に失業率上昇の一因となっています。また、もう一つの要因は、雇用率の低下です。これは、我々も注意深く見守っているところです。つまり、供給サイドで何が起こっているかによって左右されるということです。

ビバレッジ曲線に関する質問ですが、はい、委員会では全員が、全員ではないにしても、ほとんど全員が、求人件数が非常に高騰しており、求人件数が失業率の上昇や雇用減少につながるビバレッジ曲線の部分に達するまでには、まだかなりの下落余地があると感じていました。はい、つまり、私たちは、これらのことを正確に知ることは難しいと思いますが、確実に、その時点に非常に近づいているように見えます。つまり、求人件数のさらなる減少は、より直接的に失業につながるということです。しかし、これまで、これまでずっと、労働市場が逼迫する局面を数多く見てきましたが、雇用減少にはつながりませんでした。

エドワード・ローレンス、Fox Business 私たちは、FF金利が3.5%か、あるいは4%を下回る可能性があるという推測を耳にしています。そして、基本的にゼロ金利またはゼロ金利に近い金利を経験した世代が存在します。今、私たちは再びその方向に向かっているという見方もあります。低金利が今や当たり前になる可能性はどの程度あるのでしょうか?これは質問ですが、私たちはこのすべてを乗り越えた後ということですか? 

パウエル:それは素晴らしい質問です。私たちは推測することしかできません。直感的に言えば、おそらく、何兆ドルもの国債がマイナス金利で取引され、長期債がマイナス金利で取引されていた時代には戻らないでしょう。中立金利はマイナスになる可能性さえありました。人々はマイナス金利で負債を発行していました。それは今では遠い昔のことのように思えます。

私の感覚では、そこまで戻ることはないと思いますが、正直なところ、それはこれから分かるでしょう。ただ、私には、中立金利は当時よりもかなり高くなっているように感じられます。どの程度高いのでしょうか?私には分かりません。繰り返しになりますが、私たちはその働きによってのみそれを知ることができます。

もうひとつ。選挙を前にして今さら利下げを深めるのは政治的な動機があるのではないかという批判にどう答えますか? 

ええ、そうですね、私はFRBで4回目の大統領選挙を迎えますが、それはいつも同じです。私たちは常に、特にこの会議では、私たちが奉仕する国民のために何が正しいのかを問い続けています。そして私たちはそれを実行し、グループとして決定を下し、それを発表します。そしてそれは、常にそれなのです。それ以外のことは一切ありません。それ以外のことは一切議論されません。また、私たちの行動は、ほとんどの場合、遅れて経済状況に影響を及ぼすということを指摘しておきたいと思います。それでも、私たちはこの行動を続けています。私たちの仕事は、アメリカ国民に代わって経済を支えることです。そして、我々が正しく行えば、これはアメリカ国民に多大な利益をもたらすでしょう。ですから、これは本当に気を引き締めるものであり、つまり、我々全員が非常に真剣に受け止めているということです。我々は他のフィルターを一切使用していません。もしそのようなことを始めたら、どこでやめるのかわかりません。ですから、我々はそれをしないのです。

ジョリンです。パウエル議長、ありがとうございます。私はCBSニュースのジョリン・ケントです。最初の質問は、非常にシンプルです。この異例の大幅な利下げによって、アメリカの消費者や国民にどのようなメッセージを送ろうとしているのでしょうか? 

パウエル:米国経済は良好な状態にあり、そして、今日の我々の決定はそれを維持することを目的としていると申し上げたいと思います。より具体的に言えば、経済は堅調なペースで成長しています。インフレ率は徐々に2%の目標値に近づいています。労働市場は依然として堅調です。ですから、私たちの意図は、現時点で米国経済が示している強さを維持することにあります。そして、金利を高い水準から引き下げることで、それを実現します。金利の引き下げは、基調的なインフレ率を抑制することが目的です。私たちは、時間をかけて金利をより正常な水準まで引き下げていくつもりです。

そのフォローアップとして、インフレ率が2%まで大幅に低下するというお話ですが、連邦準備制度はインフレと物価上昇に対して事実上、決定的な勝利を宣言しているということでしょうか? 

いいえ、そうではありません。ですから、インフレについてですが、私たちが言っているのは、インフレは望ましいということです。目標は、持続可能な形でインフレ率を2%にまで引き下げることです。そして、私たちは2%にかなり近づいていますが、まだ本当に2%に達しているわけではありません。そして、私は、2%前後で、しばらくの間は2%に近い状態を維持したいと考えています。しかし、我々は確かに、ミッション完了などとは言っていません。しかし、これまでの進展には勇気づけられています。

こんにちは、ブルームバーグニュースのカテリーナ・セライボです。住宅インフレの持続について、委員会がどのように考えているのか、その見解をぜひお聞かせください。住宅インフレが現状のままでも2%に戻せるとお考えですか? 

パウエル:ええ。つまり、住宅価格の高騰が足を引っ張っている部分がある、と言ってもいいでしょう。市場家賃は我々が望むような動きをしており、比較的低い水準で上昇しています。しかし、賃貸契約の更新はあまり行われておらず、更新時の家賃はそれほど下がっていません。OERは高い水準で推移しています。つまり、我々の予想よりも遅れているということです。現時点で、市場家賃がこれに反映されるには時間がかかると理解している。
しかし、方向性は明確です。市場賃料が比較的低い状態が続く限り、長期的にはインフレ率が徐々に上昇していくでしょう。現時点で、それが現れるまでに1、2年の賃貸契約更新サイクルではなく、数年を要しているだけです。つまり、私たちは今、それを理解していると思いますが、結果が疑わしいとは思っていません。繰り返しになりますが、市場賃料が抑制されている限り、結果は疑う余地がありません。ですから、コアPCEインフレ率を構成するその他の要素は、概ね順調に推移していると言えるでしょう。もちろん、いずれの要素にも変動性はありますが。いずれ2%のインフレ率に落ち着くと私は考えています。そして、住宅サービス分野についても最終的には必要な結果が得られると信じています。

同僚の中には、利下げを開始すると住宅需要が再燃し、価格がさらに上昇する可能性があると懸念する人もいます。その可能性についてどう思いますか?また、その場合、どのように対応しますか? 

パウエル:住宅市場については、予想するのは難しい。住宅市場は低金利に足止めされている面がある。住宅ローンが非常に低いため、人々は自宅を売却したがらない。借り換えにはかなりの費用がかかる。金利が下がれば、人々は動き始めるだろう。すでに動き始めている可能性もある。しかし、その場合、売り手が出る一方で、多くの場合、新たな買い手も出てくることを忘れてはなりません。ですから、それがさらにどれほどの需要を生み出すかは明らかではありません。住宅に関する真の問題は、これまで十分な住宅が供給されてこなかったこと、そして今後もその傾向が続くであろうということです。ですから、これは難しい問題です。人々が住みたいと思う場所にある土地を見つけるのは難しいのです。住宅に関するあらゆる側面がますます困難になっています。そして、供給をどこから得るのか? これはFRBが本当に解決できる問題ではありません。金利が正常化すれば、住宅市場も正常化するでしょう。つまり、最終的には、インフレ率を大幅に引き下げ、金利を正常化し、住宅サイクルを正常化させることが、住宅所有者にとって最善の策です。そして、供給の問題は、市場と政府が協力して対処しなければなりません。

ビクトリアさん、こんにちは。ポリティコのビクトリア・アギドです。先ほど労働市場に関するお話がありましたが、金融政策は長い期間と可変的な遅れをもって機能します。失業率がそれほど上昇しないとどの程度お考えなのか、それは今行動を起こし始めたという事実から来るもので、労働市場が好調であるという理由だけではないということですね。それから、もし可能であれば、ニックの質問の続きですが、今日の50ベーシスポイントの利下げは、7月に利下げを行わなかったことへの反応でもあるのでしょうか。

パウエル: 遅れについてはその通りですが、私は経済全体に注目したいと思います。経済は堅調なペースで成長しています。 予測を立てている人や企業に話を聞くと、2025年も良い年になるだろうと言うでしょう。 つまり、米国経済は基本的に問題ないということです。 市場関係者に話を聞くと、つまり、実際にビジネスを行っているビジネスマンに話を聞くと、我々の動きは時宜を得ていると思います。先ほど申し上げたように、50ベーシスポイントの利下げは、米国経済が後れを取らないようにするという我々の決意の表れだとお考えください。 つまり、7月についてお尋ねですね。 もし7月の報告書を会議前に入手していたら、利下げを行っていたか、というご質問ですね。 そうした可能性もあったでしょう。我々はそう決定しなかったが、そうした可能性もあった。それは、我々自身が自問する質問に対する答えにはならない。つまり、この会議で、7月の雇用報告、8月の雇用報告、2つの消費者物価指数報告書、そのうちの1つは、もちろん、ブラックアウト期間中に出されたものだ。そして、私が挙げた他のすべての事柄についても、それらすべてを検討し、私たちは自問しています。正しい政策スタンスとはどのようなものなのか? 委員会の全員が、現時点で動くべきだという点では完全に一致していることは明らかです。問題は、どの程度の規模で、どの程度のスピードで、今後どのような道筋を考えていくかということです。本日決定した内容は委員会の幅広い支持を得ており、今後の道筋についても話し合いました。

エリザベスです。ありがとうございます、パウエル議長。エリザベス・シュルツ、ABCニュースです。この発表を予想して、住宅ローン金利はすでに低下しています。今後1年間に、借り手は金利がどれだけ下がることを期待できるでしょうか? 

パウエル:私からは申し上げにくいですね。私たちの立場では、住宅ローン金利についてお話しすることはできません。経済の動向次第であると申し上げておきましょう。しかし、私たちの意図としては、私たちの政策は適切な引き締め効果があったと考えています。現時点で、引き締め効果よりも中立的な金利水準に調整するプロセスを開始すべきだと考えています。そのプロセスには時間がかかるでしょう。本日発表した予測でもご覧いただけるように、そのプロセスには時間がかかるでしょう。そして、予測通りに物事が進めば、経済の他の金利も同様に低下するでしょう。しかし、それらの事柄が起こる速度は、経済のパフォーマンスに大きく依存します。1年先を見通して、経済がどうなるかを知ることはできません。

住宅ローン金利が高いのに住宅価格が依然として高いことにいらだたれている一般家庭へのメッセージはありますか? そのような家庭に対してどのようなことをおっしゃいますか? 

パウエル:そうですね、私が国民に言えることは、私たちはかつて最高レベルのインフレを経験し、それが急激に収まったということです。世界中の多くの国々で同様のインフレの急激な収束が起こりました。そして、そのような事態が起こった場合、その解決策の一部は金利を引き上げることによって経済を冷まし、インフレ圧力を抑えることです。人々が心地よいと感じるようなことではありませんが、最終的には低インフレが回復し、物価が安定するのです。
物価安定の適切な定義とは、人々が日常の意思決定を行う際に、もはやインフレについて考えなくて済む状態です。誰もが望むのは、インフレから脱却し、低く安定した状態を維持することです。私たちはまさにそれを実現しつつあります。現時点で私たちが経験していることは、まさにそれを回復するものであり、長期間にわたって人々を利することになるでしょう。物価安定は、人々がインフレと向き合う必要がないという事実だけで、長期間にわたってすべての人に恩恵をもたらします。 これが現在行われていることです。 そして、私たちは本当に進歩を遂げたと考えています。 もちろん、私たちは人々に経済についてどう考えるべきかを指示することはありません。 もちろん、人々は高インフレとは対照的に高価格を経験しています。 そして、それが苦痛であることは理解しています。

グレッグ こんにちは、パウエル議長。MarketWatch.comのグレッグ・ロブです。冒頭で、政策金利の据え置きについて、25か50のどちらかになるだろうと仰いましたが、その考えについてもう少し詳しくお聞かせいただけますか? 

パウエル:ウォーラー総裁とニューヨーク連銀のジョン・ウィリアムズ総裁による最後の2つのスピーチについて、私は次のように主張したいと思います。彼らは、おそらく段階的なアプローチが功を奏するだろうと述べていたのです。

つまり、この件について7つの質問をしたいのですが、CPIの数字が発表された後、先週の水曜日のように市場が50ポイントの変動を低い確率で織り込んでいた場合、50ベーシスポイントの利下げを行っていた可能性についてお話いただけますか?50ポイントの利下げは本当に低い確率でした。その可能性についてはまったく考慮に入れなかったのでしょうか? 

パウエル:そのことについて少しお話いただけますか。ありがとうございます。私たちは常に、現時点で経済にとって正しいと考えることをしようとしています。それが私たちのすることであり、今日私たちがしたことです。

サイモン。パウエル議長、ありがとうございます。エコノミスト誌のサイモン・アービノビッチです。労働市場を非常に注視していると仰いましたが、雇用者数の数字は下方修正が大きいため、最近では信頼性がやや低下しているとも指摘されています。そうなると、失業率に圧倒的に重点を置くことになるのでしょうか?また、SEPの予測では4.4がサイクルのピークになるとしていますが、それを上回るようなことがあれば、50ベーシスポイントの追加利下げの引き金になるのでしょうか? 

パウエル: 雇用者数を含む広範な労働市場のデータを引き続き注視していく。それらを破棄しているわけではありません。つまり、それらを確かに検討しますが、先ほど言及されたQCEWの調整に基づいて、それらを心理的に調整する傾向があります。明確な線引きはありません。失業率は、もちろん非常に重要ですが、それについて何かを決定づけるような、単一の統計や明確な線引きはありません。各会合を検討します。インフレ、経済活動、労働市場に関するすべてのデータを見極め、中期的に我々の使命の目標を達成するために政策スタンスをどうすべきか決定します。ですから、明確な線引きがあるとは言えません。

マット・イーガンさん? パウエル議長、ありがとうございます。CNNのマット・イーガンです。先ほど、FRBは正しいことを行うだけで、それ以外は考慮しないとおっしゃっていましたね。しかし一般論として、現職の大統領がFRBの金利決定に発言権を持つべきかどうかについて、どうお考えかお話しいただけますか?なぜなら、それは明らかにあなたを任命したトランプ前大統領が以前示唆していたことだからです。FRBは独立機関として設計されていることは承知していますが、なぜでしょうか?なぜそれが重要だと考えるのか、その理由を国民に説明していただけますか? 

パウエル:そうですね。世界中の民主主義国家、つまり米国のような国々は、すべていわゆる独立した中央銀行を持っています。その理由は、人々は長い時間をかけて、中央銀行を政治当局の直接的な統制から遮断することが、現職の政治家ではなく、そうでない人々を利するような金融政策を回避することにつながることを発見したからです。それが考え方です。独立した中央銀行を持つ国ではインフレ率が低くなるというデータは明らかです。ですから、私たちは全米民のために仕事をしているのです。私たちは、政治家や政治的立場の人物、主義主張、問題など、何に対しても奉仕はしていません。 あくまでも、全米民のために最大限の雇用と物価の安定を実現することだけです。 他の中央銀行も同様に設立されています。 これは優れた制度であり、これまで国民にとって有益なものでした。 そして、今後も継続されることを強く願っています。

カイル・キャンベル(アメリカン・バンカー)です。パウエル議長、ご質問の機会をいただきありがとうございます。この1週間の間にいくつかの規制に関する動きがありましたので、それについてお伺いしたいと思います。まず、先週、監督担当副議長のマイケル・バー氏がバーゼルIIIの最終局面における変更に関する自身の見解を概説しました。私は、それらの変更がどうあるべきかについて、彼と意見が一致しているのか、また、あなたが求めているように、それらの変更が委員会で広く支持されているのか、そして、他の機関もそのアプローチに完全に賛同していると考えているのか、疑問に思っています。そして昨日、他の銀行規制当局が... ええと、2つ目の質問は後にしてください。

わかりました。では、2つ目の質問にお答えします。ご質問の件ですが、はい、これらの変更は、私の支持と関与のもと、各機関の間で交渉されました。バー副委員長が話した変更を再提案し、それに対する意見を聞くという考えのもとです。はい、私の支持のもと、そのように進められています。それには期日があるのでしょうか?ただし、これは最終案ではありません。意見を募るために提出しているのです。意見を参考にして、適切な変更を加えるつもりです。具体的な日程は決まっていません。他の機関については、私たちは皆、一緒に動いているという考えです。別々に動いているわけではありません。ですから、正確な時期はわかりませんが、グループとして動いて、この件について再び意見を募るという考えです。そして60日後にコメントが戻ってきますので、それらを検討し、来年上半期のいつかには結論を出したいと考えています。そうですね。そして昨日、他の銀行規制当局から合併改革の最終案が出されました。FRBは合併に歩調を合わせるために何をしなければならないのでしょうか?その質問はバー副議長に投げかけたいと思います。良い質問ですが、今日はその時間はありません。ありがとうございました。

ヤフーファイナンスのジェニファー・ショーンバーガーです。あなたは先ほど、政策声明ではインフレと雇用成長のリスクがほぼ均衡していると述べているにもかかわらず、今日の決定は、穏やかな成長を維持できる労働市場の適切な再調整を反映していると述べました。しかし、今日あなたが述べたことを踏まえると、私は興味があります。あなたはインフレよりも雇用市場と成長についてより懸念しているのでしょうか?それらは均衡していないのでしょうか? 

パウエル:いいえ、そうは思いません。そして、現在ではほぼ均衡していると考えています。つまり、過去を振り返れば、リスクはインフレにありました。労働市場は歴史的に逼迫していました。深刻な労働力不足で、非常に逼迫した労働市場でした。そして、インフレ率は目標を大きく上回っていました。つまり、インフレに集中せよ、インフレに集中せよ、ということでした。そして、しばらくの間、その方針を維持しました。14ヶ月前に導入した政策スタンスは、インフレ抑制に焦点を当てたものでした。

インフレ抑制策の一環として、経済を冷え込ませ、労働市場を少し冷え込ませました。 現在、労働市場が冷え込んでいるのは、我々の活動による部分もあります。 つまり、我々のスタンスを変更する時期が来たということです。 そこで、我々はそれを実行しました。 スタンス変更の感覚としては、より中立的なスタンスへと時間をかけて政策を調整していくということです。そして、今日、そのための良い、力強いスタートを切ったと思います。これは正しい決断であり、我々がここで良い結果を出すことにコミットしているというシグナルを送るべきだと考えています。
景気は今、不況に転落するような衝撃に対してより脆弱になっているのでしょうか? そうは思いません。 そうですね、こう考えてみましょう。 今の経済には、景気後退の可能性が高まっていることを示すものは何も見当たりません。 いいですか? 私はそうは思いません。 堅調な成長が見られます。 インフレ率は低下していますし、労働市場も依然として非常に堅調な水準にあります。 ですから、私はそうは思いません。