*********Thank you, Chair Powell, for those remarks. I will note that you are not the only Fed official who is giving a public speech today. Your colleague, Governor Kugler, gave remarks earlier today in Uruguay about the importance of an independent central bank. No particular reason, I'm sure, that that was the topic of the day. We have a lot of students here today. I'm wondering if you could just explain in general why there is this bromide about it's important for the central bank to be politically independent. Sure, I'd be glad to. Let me say what we mean by independence first. So what that really means is that the decisions that we make about monetary policy, about interest rates, cannot be reversed by any other part of the government except, of course, Congress. Congress created the Federal Reserve by statute and can do what it wishes to do by statute, but our decisions are not reviewable by any other agency. And we are charged to make those decisions with regard to the medium and longer-term well-being of the public that we serve. So we're not thinking as we make our decisions about the well-being of any political party or anything like that. So we're just looking at the macroeconomics and doing the very best we can. There's been a lot of research about central bank independence, and what it shows is that central banks who are independent, meaning independent from the other parts of the government, do a better job on inflation. And that makes a lot of sense because we're thinking really just of getting inflation under control while keeping the labor market strong, and we're not thinking of other political factors, which would frankly be a distraction to the already difficult work that we have to do the main job. So the academic research is very clear globally, by the way. This has been a global trend for more than the past 50 years. Advanced economies like the United States economy around the world all have central bank independence of one part or another in one form or another. The other thing I'll add is that what comes with that on our part is an obligation to be highly transparent about what we do, to explain ourselves to the public, to Congress. Congress has oversight over the Federal Reserve in our system. So we spend a great deal of time talking to the oversight committees and the broader Congress in the House and the Senate, explaining to them why we're doing what we're doing. I testify as a matter of statute two times of the year in each of the House and Senate. So that kind of gives us the accountability that we need to be democratically legitimate in a situation where we do have some independence. The macroeconomic conditions that you just described in your remarks sound tantalizingly close to a soft landing. I know you're not willing to declare victory yet. To what extent do you think the fact that the Federal Reserve is credibly independent is responsible for the good outcomes that we've had so far? So the credibility is really everything in our work. I think, as you know, inflation spiked really globally all around the world. As the economies around the world reopened after the pandemic shut down and on the back of a lot of fiscal and monetary stimulus, we saw a burst of inflation all around the world. And what happened is we raised interest rates to bring that down, but the public had faith. We measure inflation expectations many different ways, surveys and based on market-based instruments. And they all kind of showed the same thing, which is the public all through all this believed that we would get inflation down, that we would restore price stability, which we define as 2% inflation. And that's ultimately the key to it. Inflation is a social phenomenon. If people believe that inflation will be higher than it probably will be, and if they believe that inflation will come down, then people who make and take prices and wages, they will make sure that it does come down. So it's absolutely critical that we be credible. And part of that is that we responded so forcefully when it became clear that inflation needed a response from us. We responded quite forcefully and we think that helped keep inflation expectations anchored, as we say. And then one last question and then we can move on, I promise, on this. There have been times in U.S. history when people look back and say that the Fed was not seen as terribly independent. What did we learn from those episodes in your view? Well, if you go back to the period of the high inflation, which I'm old enough to remember, it was during my college years. And basically the public kind of lost faith that the Fed would restore price stability. And the cost was a decade of very high and very volatile inflation, quite difficult business conditions, extremely difficult for people on a fixed income. Think what that does. You may have felt it. If you're on a fixed income and prices go up 20%, you're just in trouble right away. So inflation is worst for people at the lower end of the income spectrum and wealth spectrum. So we've seen it here in the United States in the 1970s, actually. And it's not a pretty picture. So I think this is very widely, by the way, understood and supported. I've spent a lot of time on Capitol Hill and I think where it really matters on both sides of Capitol Hill, the Senate and the House, in both political parties, there's a broad understanding that an independent central bank is very important in just serving the public as best we can. We're not perfect. Everyone makes mistakes, but you'll get the best results if you have people who are just focused on that task and separate from politics. Thanks. A little bit more elaboration from what we heard last week at the press conference on this question. In that press conference, you basically downplayed the impact of the election on FOMC policy. You said we needed to kind of wait and see, but that does stand in contrast to how the FOMC behaved at the December 2016 meeting when roughly half of committee participants, according to the transcripts, upgraded their economic forecasts based on expected changes to fiscal policy under a Trump administration. In particular, a previous trifecta in which the Republicans controlled both chambers of Congress and the White House. You were in fact one of the policymakers who made changes to your forecast, finding that the staff's assumptions around a tax cut was a reasonable placeholder, which gave you greater confidence in the outlook. Does that approach seem reasonable in the current circumstances that basically, since the FOMC has been starting to judge some downside risks to the growth outlook, does the election and the results that we have today remove or at least substantially mitigate downside risks to growth? That's your question? I think it's too early to reach judgments here, and I'll tell you why. The job of staff is to go and be very nimble and make assessments in real time, much like capital markets do. The markets are pricing in assessments of what policy changes will be made and what their effect on the economy will be, and staff will do all of that. I think policymakers are going to wait longer to see what the actual effects will be. For sure, at our December meeting will be, staff will present what we know, but the thing is we don't actually really know what policies will be put in place. We know that policies in several areas will change. We don't know how much, we don't know over what time frame. When it comes to fiscal policy, it takes quite a long time to get a bill through Congress, and I think this year what we're looking at is something that doesn't need to get done until the end of the year, and therefore probably won't, and won't have any economic effects this year, but it'll be more 2000 or 25, it'll be 26 or 27. So I think we have time to make assessments about what the net effects of policy changes will be on the economy before we react with policy. That's not to say we won't be doing quite a lot of analysis, and the analysis we do, by the way, is informed by the best research, the best thinking, the best experts, and there's a lot of research on the effect of policy changes on the economy. We'll make those assessments, but I think we'll be careful about changing policy until we have a lot more certainty. You've spoken before about federal debt as being at unsustainable levels and the potential consequences for growth. Do we get to a point where deficits and debt get so high that it makes your job harder, essentially, that it makes it harder for the Fed to achieve its goals? So we're not at that point now. I want to be clear that we're not in any way taking into account fiscal issues when we make our, let me say it this way, the debt issue is not an issue that is guiding us in making our economic judgments. Fiscal policy can, of course, affect the economy. You know, first of all, it's not, we do not have a role of supervising the elected branches that do fiscal policy. In fact, it's the other way around. So we don't give them specific advice, but as I have often said, and as all of my predecessors have noted, the U.S. federal government budget is on an unsustainable path. It's not that the debt we have is at an unsustainable level. It's not. It's that we're on a path that's not going to be sustainable. We have a very large deficit at a time when we're at full employment. And I would just say, we know that we're going to need to address that. And it's going to need to be done sooner or later. And sooner is better than later, but I leave it at that. In addition to the potential long-term risks that higher deficits and debt present for growth, are there also risks to the functionality of the treasury market? You know, when shocks hit the market, and if so, how might the Fed respond? Well, the functioning of the treasury market is incredibly important and it does function very well. It's the most liquid and most important probably financial market in the world. Certainly one of the most important. And so, you know, we did see some, at the beginning of the pandemic, you may remember that the treasury market lost function because normally, normally in an emergency, money flies into the treasury market, but the pandemic was such an unusual event. People didn't want to own longer term securities. They only wanted to own effectively cash. And so we had to jump in and support that. I think more broadly than that, it's just important that the treasury market remain well regulated and, you know, that companies have an incentive to do intermediation in the treasury market. It's relatively low risk. It's very important for the economy. And it's important that that be the case. In the March 2020 episode that you're referring to, the Fed ultimately had to step in as a lender of last resort. Would the Fed do that if there were similar disruptions in the initial issuance of treasuries? That was in the secondary market, as I recall. You know, we're not a fiscal actor. So that was a situation where we have a mandate that we share with other agencies to look after the financial stability. And part of that is if really important markets break down, and they kind of all broke down at the beginning of the pandemic, they just stopped working. And so we set up a series of facilities to backstop those markets, but they actually didn't get used because just the fact that we had the facilities restored credibility and the markets started working on their own, it was remarkable. So in the case of a financial stability event like that, or the global financial crisis, where really the whole global financial system was at risk, given the failure of a number of large financial institutions around the world, in those kinds of things, we can use these emergency tools. But they're not for every event. They're really for financial stability events. You mentioned that it's a little bit too early to know what policy beyond the remit of the Fed would look like. You know, we don't know exactly what the fiscal picture will look like, but we do know directionally that tariffs are likely to go up, right? Even if we don't know how much, if we don't, we don't know necessarily if it'll be exactly what was described on the campaign. And I'm wondering how you're thinking about that. If you, well, go on, sorry. So what matters for us is, we don't stand in judgment over these policies in any way. What matters for us is to what extent will new policies have an effect on our mandate goals of maximum employment and price stability? And do we need to change our policy because of these changes in order to achieve those goals? And the answer to that question is not obvious. Um, so let's, let's say that there will be some tariffs. We don't really, we have no idea what that's going to look like. That's one thing. Another thing is what about retaliation? That changes the picture. In addition, that's happening at a time when there could be fiscal policy, which could be supportive of the economy. So what's really the net effect? What are, we don't take one piece of this. We're looking at the whole economy. In addition, remember, this is way over a $20 trillion economy. Many, many things affect the economy all the time. It's, it's not that common that, that changes in, in government policy have immediate effects in the achievement of our goals. That could be the case. And of course we will use our tools as we're supposed to do to foster the achievement of maximum employment and price stability. That's what we do. That's what we always do. And we'll do it here. I'm just saying it is, it's, we're going to be careful to wait and better understand the net effects of these things as it, as it, as those things affect the achievement of our goals. If you look back to the previous round of trade wars under Trump's first term, the Fed staff prepared a report in the 2018 teal book where they basically talked about whether, whether the Fed should be looking through any price increases that result from tariffs and assume that they're, you know, it's a one-time step up in prices as opposed to self-perpetuating inflation or not. And the staff said at the time that, that the Fed should look through the tariff increases so long as one, you think it's going to be a one-time adjustment and not a series of adjustments. And two, so long as inflation expectations are anchored. It's not obvious that either of those conditions will hold the next time around, right? Back in 2018, we had had decades of very low inflation. Now we've had a much more recent experience with, with higher inflation. And as you point out, there could be a series of retaliations in tariffs and counter tariffs and counter tariffs. So are the risks bigger this time that a price shock could feed into trend inflation? They're different. We're in a different situation. The debt situation is, has changed substantially. And you're right. We're not, you know, six years ago and such, the inflation was really low and inflation expectations were low. Now we've come way back down, but, but we're not back where we were. It's a different situation. Inflation still running above 2%. We'll take all of that into account. I tell you though, the answer isn't, isn't obvious until we see the actual policies. And even then it's not obvious. So I just think we reserve judgment until we actually know what we're talking about. And, and I don't want to speculate. I don't want to guess. I think it's more important that we wait and see what actually happens. Last time around, as you suggested, there were mixed consequences. There were mixed effects. And as I recall, during these previous trade wars, the Fed actually cut rates several times because there were consequences for growth and investment in confidence. So how does the Fed respond if higher tariffs result in both higher prices and slower growth? Do you have the tools to respond to that? Well, so you're absolutely right. So in, when in 2000 and I guess it was 19, we cut rates three times and that was right after there had been fiscal stimulus, there had been tariffs. And so it really was because the net effect of what was happening and what was happening around the world too, there was global growth was really soft. There was a feeling that the U.S. economy was softening. We actually cut rates three times, I guess, beginning mid-year. And, and that, that kind of worked, you know, that restored confidence. We felt at the end of 2019, we felt like that, that had really worked and that, and that situation was quite a good one. Of course, then the pandemic arrived and none of it mattered. So that's the way it happened. But that's exactly my point though. You know, we didn't, we didn't, we had a, we had a meeting the prior December and it briefed us on what might happen, but what actually happened was something quite different. So we're, I don't want to talk about the pandemic. I just mean the way that played out. I didn't, I don't think we started that year thinking that it would be appropriate to cut rates three times. So we're just know that we will do what we believe is the right thing. That's what we're always going to do. But I think it's really important to reserve judgment and, and, and, you know, see how this plays out. We don't even have, we're still months away from a new, a new administration, let alone knowing the real details of what's going to happen and then being able to project what will be the net effects on the economy. Another major factor in the economy in the past year or so you've said is immigration. That immigration is a strong reason why supply and demand have become, have gotten closer into alignment. In the past few months, we've already seen big decreases in immigration. What effect do you think that is likely to have on the macroeconomy in the near term? So before I answer that, I do want to say that immigration is an, is a question to be addressed by political authorities using such values as they deem appropriate. Not, we're just, we're looking at the macroeconomic effects and, and reporting on them. We're not, it's not a question of judging. We don't have a view on the right level of immigration that is for the voting public and the, and their elected representatives. Okay. But we, what we saw over 2023 and 24 was, was, you know, a surge in, in immigration and also a surge in the labor force. And it certainly pushed up economic growth. And, and it may or may not have had some effect on getting the labor market back into balance. You know, it'll take time to really understand that, but it certainly made for a bigger economy and, you know, we're coming off the back of a severe labor shortage. So there was room at that time for people to get work and they, you know, they went to work at roughly the same level as non-immigrants went to work. So that happened. Then the rules changed, the, the prior administration, the current administration, the Biden administration changed the rules a few months back. And we've seen that come down. These are judgments that, that, that get to be made by elected people about what, what the right thing for the country as a whole is not by us, you know, but the U.S., what the effects will be, you, you will see really there have been two supply side things that have been pushing up U.S. potential output and actual output. One of them is just more workers. And the other one is productivity. And the more workers part of it is probably diminishing in its effects. And so we won't, that won't be something that's pushing up overall output. At the same time, the number of job openings has come way down. So it's not clear what, what the overall effect will be on the, there's about one job opening for every unemployed person. Now, in terms of productivity, productivity is incredibly important. That's just output per hour. And if you think about it, higher output per hour is really the only way for incomes to go up over time among the public. And we've, we've actually had for the first time in a while, a few years of higher productivity going back five years now. This is incredibly important and very positive. And we hope it, we hope it continues. And there's no reason why it can't. I will say though, that over the past 50 years, if you look at it, if you have one or two or three years of high productivity, it tends to revert to the trend really quickly. Because it tends to be driven by longer run things like evolving technology and, and evolving educational levels and things like that. So it doesn't, you don't tend to get big, big increases of productivity that are sustained very often. It's quite rare, although it has happened. I do want to ask you some more questions about productivity, but just one follow up on the immigration point. So yeah, so economic growth is about the size of the worker, the workforce and how productive that workforce is. I asked before about the consequences of decelerating immigration. What happens if the workforce actually shrinks as a result of, for example, mass deportations, which may be in the offing? You know, I'm not going to be comfortable speculating on potential policies. You know, it's not our job to be a commentator. No, I'm not asking whether it's good or bad. I'm just asking, what does it mean if the workforce shrinks? You know, I mean, I think we can do the arithmetic. If there are fewer workers, there'll be less work done. But, but we don't, it gets too close to, you know, I just, I just don't want to go there. This is, this is getting me into, you know, into political issues that I really want to stay as far away from it as I possibly can. All right, so let's talk about productivity.
*********You're right that productivity has been above trend. I think eight out of the last nine quarters GDP growth has been above trend largely because of productivity. To what do you attribute that? So this is this is something people will be arguing about in decades from now but I would give you four or five candidates. So one of them is that in the pandemic people started a lot of businesses a lot of businesses and that many of those fail fairly quickly and or don't turn out to matter but when there's a burst of activity in starting businesses there are tends empirically to be higher productivity because many of these are technologically driven or the use of technology is is pushed out into the society so that's one. Another is that unlike a lot of our for example European countries where they kept the labor force in place here people had money from government transfers and also from forced savings they couldn't travel they couldn't go to restaurants and so they quit their jobs and they went and found other jobs and so there was this huge reallocation of people from jobs that that they actually didn't want that much to jobs that they wanted more and that that's a real we think that's a real factor in this. In addition given the tremendous labor shortages a lot of time and effort went into supplementing and you know people's technological capabilities in ways that substituted for labor so there's a lot of that. Can you give an example what you mean? Sure I mean just just call centers you know there's lots of ways to you know you can you can now do call centers so they're much more automated we're getting to a place where call centers will be done by you know by by artificial intelligence probably but but also just you know we go to go to a fast-food restaurant which of course I never do anymore at my age but if you go to I'm told if you go to a fast-food restaurant you know a lot of that is and I've seen this in airports actually you don't necessarily need somebody to take your order you've got a nice menu you punch a screen and the food appears so and there was tremendous incentive to do that when there weren't any workers you see you saw stores that didn't have very many people in them and that sort of thing so I think that's that's that's an example that we saw. I don't think I heard you mention in that response anything about like generative AI I'm wondering do you think that that could be part of a new era of productivity acceleration? You know artificial intelligence pre-generative AI is used all the time by big companies and modest sized companies too and it's certainly having an effect on productivity. Generative AI is just in the early stages and certainly the companies that in the banks in particular that we deal with are not really using it yet they're not really deploying it yet and they're very aware of the risks in it so but over time I mean it you can you can find you can find estimates from credible organizations that that generative AI will create a burst of productivity a large burst of productivity in the next decade. You can also find skeptics you know very credible skeptics who think that that's hugely overdone. The history has always been that you know there's innovation there's technology it doesn't show up in the productivity statistics at all and then it shows up a lot but much later so it's usually later and bigger than we expect. That may be the case here because this really it is an extraordinary set of developments and the ability to replace a lot of work that's currently done by humans including well-educated humans is obvious. How does that influence your thinking about monetary policy? You know it really doesn't in the short term we keep extremely close tabs on the labor force. If you think about it monetary policy is trying to move trying to keep the economy at maximum employment and price stability trying to use our tools to do that and that's a meat you're thinking you know two or three years out the kind of things that drive longer-run productivity and that matter for the longer run are really not tools that are in our hands. The best thing we can do for that for technological evolution is to create macroeconomic price stability by which I mean price stability and and a good strong stable labor market so that people don't have to worry about inflation volatile or high and so that that's the most that we can do I think best thing we can do. You mentioned that a lot of the financial institutions that you regulate or you oversee are also experimenting with these new technologies with AI. Given that so much AI is not explainable you know it's sort of a black box a lot of the time the software engineers or others who work with it cannot explain how it came to the decision that it did does that make it harder to regulate in the sense that there might be blind spots for certain kinds of systemic risk right if banks don't necessarily know how they're coming to the decisions that they're coming to and there could be some hurting that may not be obvious. It does raise just that just that kind of question many different questions like that I would say the good news is in terms of the institutions we supervise we understand that but they understand it very well I think people are treating AI very carefully and they're they're not just loosing it at least in among the regulated banks they're not just loosing it on their customers and on the problems they face there they're being very careful and thoughtful we believe or at least I believe about about how they implement it doing lots of work but they're keeping it carefully under wraps and and you know not deploying it so much yet in their business and working you know we're everyone's working to understand the technology where it's going what it's capable of what the risks are and you mentioned that it's making decisions and we often don't know why it made it why it makes these decisions so how do you it could have how do you how do you get after things like discriminatory outcomes in lending if you don't know why the why it's making its decisions so it's it's going to be you know challenging but I would say we're well aware of that and so are the banks.
*********You have a five-year strategic review coming up. How has your experience over the last five years made you re-evaluate, if at all, the strategy adopted in 2020? You know, we had a strategic review and we have a document called our Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. It's one page. The type is getting really small, so I think we're gonna go to two pages next time. But we were, remember, that was the era where for a long time after the global financial crisis, rates around the world were incredibly low. For example, major European countries, their longer-term debt was yielding negative 30 basis points and things like that. How do you even understand that? So rates were very, very, very low in the economy and that's a problem for central banks because we can't cut rates meaningfully below zero and cutting rates is what we do to support the economy. So we actually like having significantly positive interest rates like we do now. All right, so what we did is we said there was a whole literature on how you deal with, in monetary policy, how you deal with having interest rates stuck at zero, in effect, and you can't cut. You're kind of stuck. You can't support the economy. You get into this trap where growth is low, inflation is low, unemployment is high, and you can't get out of it without fiscal policy and fiscal policy is challenged. So there was a lot of research done on it and we took a pretty mainstream, fairly vanilla approach to that, which is, I won't go into all the details, but it was to have a make-up strategy so that we would promise ex-ante to let inflation run a little bit high if it were running too low. And the thought was if people believe that you'll do that, if that's credible, then inflation won't run low. So that's all we did. Four months after we announced that the pandemic hit and then inflation a year after that came up. So the change, you know, 20 years of low inflation ended sort of four months or a year and four months after we did the framework. So the question we'll be asking in this framework five years later is really it revolves around what, how do we think about the problem of the zero lower bound now? Now the interest rates are substantially higher than they were. Substantially higher. Is that going to be, you know, so the question you're asking is, do we, you know, where will we review the framework every five years? Shouldn't we change the framework to reflect interest rates are higher now so that some of the changes we made are probably not necessary or in any case shouldn't be the base case anymore. They might be, they might be a case that we have that, we can have that remedy at the, handy, but at the same time the base case should be more like a traditional reaction function where you don't promise an overshoot. You just target inflation. We haven't made any decisions, but those are the questions we'll be asking. You mentioned the prospect of long-term rates being higher, the neutral rate being higher. You've said many times when asked by journalists among others about how we know when we fit the neutral rate that we know it by its works, right? Which almost sounds like ecclesiastical or something. How long does it take to evaluate whether we've hit it? When do we know? Like if there are lags between the time that we hit the neutral rate and then we can see it in its works, does that increase the risk for policy errors? Let me just take a second and explain. So we move interest rates up and down, but you know, what is high and what is low? You know, compared to what is the question? You have to have an estimate of something that's kind of neutral, something that in a level of interest rates that's neither pushing the economy up, supporting it, or dragging it down, which would be higher restrictive policy. And we fully acknowledge that there is no, there's no sort of either theoretical or empirical way to arrive at an estimate of what the neutral rate is that you can really have a lot of confidence in. So what does that argue for? It argues for moving carefully. So in our, in our current situation, we're, we feel like our policy is restrictive. We can't say exactly how restrictive it is. By that I mean it's, it's weighing on economic activity and lending, hiring and all that because the economy was overheated and now it's cooling down and it's moved pretty much as we, as we had hoped it would, which is that we've had a gradual cooling in the labor market. Inflation's come down a lot and the labor market's not quite stabilized, but it's in, it's in a good place. So it's actually worked very well. So we've started the process of cutting rates and moving back down toward neutral. I think the right way to find that level is carefully and patiently. You don't want to move too quickly. You may have to move quickly because if the labor market were to begin to deteriorate in a serious way, we would want to get ahead of that, but we're not seeing that. So I think, I think what it tells you, as, as Catherine pointed out, we think that policy works with long and variable lags to quote Milton Friedman. Monetary policy does have effects on economic activity, hiring and all that, but with long and variable lags, and that makes it all that much more difficult to know how far to go. I think in this situation, what it calls for is us to be careful, move carefully. And as we, as we sort of reach the range of, or get near the plausible range of neutral levels, it may be the case that we, that we slow the pace of what we're doing just to increase the chances that we get this right. You know, we're, we're navigating between, as I mentioned in my remarks, the risk that we move too quickly, the risk that we move too slowly. We want to go down the middle and get it just right so that we're, we're providing support for the labor market, but also bringing in, helping, enabling inflation to come down. So going a little slower, if, if the data let us go a little slower, that seems like a smart thing to do. So you say that interest rates are still restrictive right now, but if you look at the CP, like CPI numbers that have came out recently or today's PPI numbers, you know, core CPI is over 3%. I think when I looked, the one month rate is higher than the three month rate, which is, I believe, higher than the 12 month rate. The economy is booming. The market is on fire. Core PPI came in above expectations today. Business formations are up. You know, why, why are we cutting rates? It seems like the economy is doing pretty well. The economy is doing very well, and that's a great thing. We totally welcome that. But look at the labor market. So what we've seen is a lot of the great data that we're, that we've seen has been because of the expanding supply side. Unemployment has moved up from 3.4 to now 4.1 by a significant number of indicators. It's still cooling. Our mandate is not for growth. It's for maximum employment or price stability. Um, but on the inflation data, so we do see inflation continuing on that bumpy path I mentioned. Um, today's reading was slightly more of an upward bump than than we had expected. But I would say the broader trend, if you look back over the last 18 months, we think that's still intact. We're gonna tear this report apart and look at all the details where we'll get another report in December before the December meeting. We get another labor report. We'll get we'll get the final numbers for for October by the end of this month, and we'll look at all that. We'll make our assessment. We do believe policy is restrictive. And again, I would point to I would point to the labor market. But you know, it's not clear how restrictive it is. That's very fair point. And we're well aware of that. And I think we're mindful of the risk that we go too far too fast. But also of the risk that we that we don't go far enough. It doesn't seem like that's where we are either. It seems like we're right where we need to be. I mean, I do feel like the U. S. Economy is in a very good place, and I feel like our policy is in a really good place. We've got a lot of rape, a lot of space to cut rates if the economy weakens. In the meantime, we can take the process of reducing rates. We can be careful about that, and that's what we're going to do. I know we're short on time, so one last question. Um, there has been an idea floated to announce who will succeed you as Fed chair in order to possibly exert more influence over monetary policy, a sort of shadow chair to Pope's idea. Your term on the Fed's board runs until January 2028. Beyond your term is chair, which ends in May 2026. Under what circumstances, if any, would you consider remaining on the Fed's board after your term is chair ends as Mariner Eccles did for a few years after he was no longer share? Um, so, you know, I would just say, um, I I'll certainly serve to the end of my to end of my chair term, and that's really all I've all I've decided and all I'm thinking about. We're very focused just on, uh, you know, getting the job done for the American people that that's that's enough of a job for us to do. And we're focused on that. All right. Well, thank you so much, Chair Powell. I really appreciate it. And thank you all for attending.