*********Ed, thanks, everyone, and thanks to the organizers from the Cleveland Fed Center for Inflation Research and the European Central Bank for putting together such a fantastic program. The first inflation conference in this series was held 10 years ago at the Cleveland Fed in May of 2014. At that time, inflation was running below the Federal Open Market Committee's 2% objective, and the Fed funds rate was close to zero. The environment is quite different today. After running well above 2% for more than two years, inflation has eased notably, but has not yet returned to our goal. These shifting dynamics serve as a reminder that there is still much to be learned about the inflation process and its interaction with monetary policy. I'm grateful for the researchers here today and around the world who are studying these important issues. We have an exceptional lineup of presenters and speakers over the next two days. I'd like to extend a special thanks to Philip Lane of the ECB for making his second trip to Cleveland for this conference. We're also pleased to welcome our keynote speakers, Christina Romer with the University of California, Berkeley, and Stephanie Schmidt-Grohe with Columbia University. The papers and discussions at this conference help us improve our understanding of inflation dynamics, an effort that is of vital importance to central banks. So my final thank you is to all of you who are joining us, whether in Cleveland or online. To our in-person guests, I'll just note that if you had arrived last weekend, you might have been able to see Cher inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame or the Guardians play the Yankees. We'll have to better coordinate with local events next time, given the wealth of opportunities this great city has to offer. In my brief time this morning, I will discuss the drivers of the recent rise and subsequent decline in inflation and then turn to the current inflation environment. I will conclude with some open questions for your consideration. Before I begin, I would like to thank my staff in the Research and Communications Departments for their help with my remarks. And as always, the views I present are my own and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve System or any of my colleagues on the FOMC. For most of the last expansion, inflation tended to run below the FOMC's 2% objective. When the Cleveland Fed launched the Center for Inflation Research in early December 2018, it just so happened that headline PCE was right at 2%. But this situation didn't last for long. Over the course of 2019, inflation once again moved down below the goal. The pandemic and its aftermath flipped this script and introduced new sources of uncertainty about the economy. When the economy shut down in March 2020, governments and central banks across the globe took aggressive actions to support households, businesses, and the financial system. These actions, which included ensuring the flow of credit, helped to limit lasting damage to the economy. Often forgotten in pandemic retrospectives is that PCE inflation did not accelerate immediately but rather slowed in the first half of 2020 and remained low during the second half of the year. It wasn't until the beginning of 2021 that inflation began its climb. The pronounced and persistent pickup in inflation surprised many analysts and central bankers who continued to believe well into the second half of 2021 that inflation would ease the following year. Underlying this belief was the observation that the initial jump in inflation was concentrated in a relatively small number of prices, such as those for new and used vehicles, and the anticipation that supply bottlenecks would recover quickly. Because of this, measures of underlying inflation, including the Cleveland Fed's trimmed mean and median indicators, were not flashing red. As Chair Powell put it at Jackson Hole earlier this year, the good ship transitory was a crowded one. By the end of 2021, the outlook for inflation had dramatically changed. The sharp acceleration in prices that started early that year did not recede but instead was followed by the highest inflation readings that the U.S. and many other countries had seen in decades. With the benefit of hindsight, we now understand that this outcome reflected a confluence of factors that produced an imbalance between aggregate supply and aggregate demand. Demand grew at a robust pace driven by monetary and fiscal support. Meanwhile, bottlenecks and strained supply chains persisted for longer than expected. These demand supply imbalances were amplified by major shifts in consumer behavior as households increased their spending towards goods and away from services early in the pandemic. Reflecting a similar confluence of factors, strong labor demand met with constrained labor supply to generate a strong pickup in wage growth. Finally, in the beginning of the war in Ukraine created further supply side pressures, leading to significant increases in food and energy prices during 2022. Persistently elevated inflation readings raised several concerns. There was considerable discussion about the return to the high inflation environment of the 1970s. The combination of robust labor demand, labor force participation rates, and accelerating wages raised questions about prospects for a wage price spiral. And there was growing apprehension about whether longer run inflation expectations would become unanchored. Amid mounting evidence that inflationary pressures were becoming more broad based and persistent, the FOMC began to remove monetary policy accommodation starting in March of 2022. More than a year after the onset of the inflation surge, and as the FOMC began to forcefully tighten monetary policy, inflation started to decline. It has not been a straight line of progress towards returning inflation to our 2% goal while seeking to achieve maximum employment. Readings on inflation picked up by more than anticipated at the beginning of this year, prompting renewed questions about the progress of disinflation. However, in recent months, the readings have generally improved. Since its peak in June of 2022, PCE inflation has decreased by about five percentage points. Several developments have contributed to the disinflation process. Global supply chain pressures have eased. Spending on goods and services has gradually shifted back towards its pre-pandemic composition. The boost in growth from fiscal policy has waned. Pandemic-related labor market shortages improved as more workers have entered or re-entered the labor force. In the U.S. and elsewhere, restrictive monetary policy helped cool demand to bring it into better balance with supply. Cleveland-fed researchers have identified a few additional factors that facilitated the disinflation process. One Cleveland-fed study found low pass-through from inflation expectations to wage growth, limiting the potential for a wage price spiral. Another study found that wages were lagging and not leading prices. In addition to these studies, survey data shows longer-term inflation expectations have remained relatively well anchored in stark contrast to the 1970s experience. Stable expectations made it easier to bring inflation down than would have been the case if households and businesses believed that high inflation would last well into the future. Remarkably, this disinflation process has progressed with notable strength in the labor market and the economy in general. As one prominent example, to date, the decrease in vacancies for workers has not coincided with a large increase in the unemployment rate. In other words, the economy appears to have been moving along the steep portion of the beverage curve. And there's an increasing volume of research suggesting that during the tight post-pandemic labor market, the Phillips curve was steeper than had been the case in recent decades. This brings me to the current inflation situation. Unlike the high global inflation readings from two years ago, inflation and economic outcomes of late have differed across countries. In the U.S., we have made good progress but inflation is still running above the FOMC's 2% objective, with the August headline PCE price index having increased 2.2% over the past 12 months. Measures that attempt to capture trend inflation are somewhat higher. Core PCE inflation, which omits food and energy prices, was 2.7%. The median PCE inflation rate, which is calculated by the Cleveland Fed, was 3.2%. As Chair Powell said at the September press conference, following the FOMC meeting, although we have begun the policy recalibration process, we are not saying mission accomplished when it comes to inflation. The pandemic and its aftermath have been a reminder that differing movements across the components of inflation can have important implications for the path of aggregate inflation. Declines in energy prices have lowered headline inflation of late, but geopolitical events could cause these prices to rapidly reverse course. Core goods inflation has slowed back to its near pre-pandemic pace, thanks in no small part to the improvement in supply chains. Inflation for core services, excluding housing, remains a little above its pre-pandemic rate, likely reflecting the lagged effects of tight labor market conditions in various service sectors. As labor market conditions have cooled more recently, it is reasonable to think that we should see some further easing in those price pressures. In line with this progress, housing services inflation has declined from its peak, but remains elevated. Housing services inflation is a highly persistent time series meaning that it does not usually adjust quickly. Official shelter indices reflect a combination of rents paid by new and existing tenants. While rent growth for new tenants has come down markedly since peaking in 2022, Cleveland Fed research shows that the rents for new tenants are passed through only gradually to existing tenants, and thus to official shelter indices. This raises the possibility that housing services inflation could remain elevated for a while. The great agenda and attendance for this conference attests to the high level of inflation and the high level of interest in the many inflation issues we are still trying to understand, but further research is needed to help inform monetary policy decisions. Let me leave you with five sets of open questions surrounding the inflation outlook and hopefully topics for future papers and conferences. First are questions about the inflation components, about the dynamics of the inflation components. During the pandemic, we saw substantial shifts both in the composition of spending and component inflation rates. Will we return to the pre-pandemic component inflation rates on a sustained basis, or put differently, what will 2% inflation look like in the future, and what are the implications for economic growth and for the labor market? Second, after a long stretch of relatively low inflation, how will recent changes in price levels affect consumer behaviors and their expectations over near and longer-term horizons? And did the long period of low inflation preceding the pandemic paradoxically amplify the perception of price increases? Third, what impact will advances in artificial intelligence have on productivity, wages, and inflation? Are we starting to see the impact of AI on productivity growth, which could increase the rate of non-inflationary wage growth on a more persistent basis? Fourth, there are questions about longer-term inflation expectations. Why did these expectations remain relatively stable despite the large run-up in inflation? Was it just good luck, or was it systematic policy actions and communications that contributed to the public's confidence that the central bank would restore price stability? Why was this experience so different from the 1970s? Were there specific tools that enabled this success? Finally, my last set of questions is on the interplay between inflation and monetary policy. Policymakers constantly need to assess the impact of our decisions. Given current circumstances, how quickly should monetary policy aim to bring inflation down to our 2% objective? What further work is needed to understand the different impacts of inflation across the income spectrum? And taking into account the ongoing strength in the aggregate economy, how restrictive is current monetary policy? There's a wide range of estimates of the long-run neutral real Fed funds rate, or R-star. The most recent estimates from the FOMC's summary of economic projections puts R-star in the range of 0.4 to 1.75%. Estimates at the high end of that range would suggest fewer reductions in the funds rate are necessary to return policy to a neutral stance than current market pricing implies. Empirically, how can we continue to refine our estimates of the neutral rate to help guide policy? There is much to discuss when it comes to these critical issues, so I will no longer keep you from the important content ahead, which I hope will improve our understanding of key inflation dynamics. My thanks to all of you researchers who are continuing this important work to help policymakers like myself and my colleagues at the ECB and, in turn, the publics we serve. I wish you a very productive conference and look forward to the discussions.