M
Anything you want to say before we get started with some Q and A and some questions from me? 
BOSTIC
I wish I had gone before the kids. They were great. 
M
So we're going to take a few minutes here and I'm going to ask some questions and in about 12.45 we're going to open it up on the floor. So if you have some questions that I'm not asking but you want to ask those tough and play reporter questions, feel free because I know he can handle it. So let's get started if we can. Are we in a recession? 
BOSTIC
No. 
M
Okay. So. I love yes, no questions. You can just say no. So you guys, the Feds lowered the interest rate, I think it was the first time in four years I believe it was. Am I correct on that? Something like that. Yeah, something like that. And a lot of folks were kind of surprised but yet there were some indication that this was going to happen. Walk us through your thoughts of how we came to that, what made you all decide to do that and where do you think it's going to land the ship down the road? 
BOSTIC
Sure. So when I think about the appropriate stance for policy, it's all in the context of our charge. We have two mandates. One is price stability and the other is maximum employment. 
Our price stability target is 2%. Maximum employment is less clear but you're trying to get to something that's the equivalent of full employment, which is the lowest unemployment, the most people employed you can get to without pushing inflation to be very high. Halfway through the pandemic, our employment mandate was pretty much on target. 
We're at 3.4% unemployment, a lot of jobs being created on a monthly basis. So there wasn't risk or concerns there. On the price stability side, though, inflation, as you all know, went to 7%. By our measuring, some other measures went 9, 10%, far, far away from our target. 
So what that says is that we've got to move our policy stance to deal with the inflation problem and get it back to target. And that's what we did by increasing the rates to the 5, 5.5 level and holding it there because when you have restrictive policy, monetary policy works with something of a lag. So the economy will not respond immediately once you get to that point. 
You've got to stay there and you've got to let it play out. And then what we saw is that inflation started to come down. So that was good. Our policy is working. I'm happy. But as that's happening, the inflation is getting closer to our target. 
So the risk on the inflation side is falling. And in the employment side, unemployment went from 3.4% up to—I think at one point it was 4.3%. Now it's 4.1%. But that's moving a fair amount. Now, there's a range for what full employment looks like. We are still in that range. But the risk that we might get out of that space has actually changed. 
And so the balance of risk between inflation and employment have come closer to the same levels. That should say that wherever we were just to deal with inflation is not going to be the right place to be if we've got to take on and pay attention to these dual risks in the same way. So for me, that's why we needed to move our policy rate. It wasn't because we were in a recession. 
It was because the risks had shifted in a way that our policy posture had to evolve. Now, the goal for me is to have our policy not have to be restrictive or accommodating. I think the goal is to have the economy be able to stand on its own, continue to produce jobs, continue to innovate, continue to produce output, have consumers continue to spend. That level of policy rate, people talk about—they describe it as the neutral rate. 
It's a rate that we have that just allows things to go. We're not pushing. We're not putting the brakes on. For me, the neutral rate is somewhere in the 3 to 3.5% range. We're right now at 4.75%. So there's a ways to go. One last thing I would just say, I'm not in a rush to get to neutral. 
We must get inflation back to our 2% target. And I don't want us to get to a place where inflation stalls out because we haven't been restrictive for long enough. So I'm going to be patient. And we're going to let the data show us how inflation proceeds, how employment proceeds. Those are going to be my guides for how quickly we need to get to our neutral level. 
M
What's your gut saying on how long it will take to get inflation down to the 2%? 
BOSTIC
So my gut hasn't done very well in the last couple of years. Then you don't want to work on those kids going to the stock market. That's why—they were impressive. They would have done better than I did. But here's what I would say. I have to make an outlook. 
Every quarter, we're asked to provide our assessment of where we think the economy is going to be at the end of this year, the end of next year, and the like. So in that outlook, I have us getting to target somewhere toward the end of 2025. The inflation targets are getting back to something close to 2% by then. So that says that that should be sort of the timetable for when we should get to neutral. 
Now, I don't expect it's going to be a straight line, right? So as you've been listening to the data, things are slowing down, but then you get a pop in an unemployment report, or you get inflation that's showing that it's more persistent than people expected. So that choppiness says that we have to make sure that we're getting a true signal because there's going to be a lot of noise around that. 
I describe to people—when we were in school, remember when they'd do a plot and you'd have to chart the line? Almost none of the dots were on the line. That's what we're living in today. So we're going to get some dots that come above, some dots get below, and the job is going to be to make sure we still see the right line, and that line is going to where we want to go. 
So that's kind of how I'm thinking about it. I think to discern a line takes time. So again, I'm not in a rush to get anywhere. I want to make sure that we're seeing the right line so that our policy goes to the right place. So when folks go to the grocery store, they're still dealing with that part of the inflation. 
I think everyone here can attest that when you go to Kroger's, you walk out with fewer bags but spending more money. So how does that scenario play into this factor as you look down the road? Yeah, so I have the same Kroger experience as everybody else. 
But here's what I would say on this, and the food is more complicated because food prices do go up and down, much like gas prices do. On the goods side, that happens more than on the services side. But in general, I don't think that—well, I'm not expecting to see prices return to where they were in 2020. 
Prices usually go up, and the average price level stays up. Our inflation target is 2 percent, it's not 0 percent. So we should expect to see movement in prices. What's been true for the U.S. economy, though, is that wages and income have risen typically more than inflation. So in real time, purchasing power rises over time, and people will be able to handle those prices more easily from period to period to period. 
And that's exactly what the data are showing. So for the last year and a half, average wage growth in this country has exceeded inflation, sometimes by 1 and 1.5 percent. So the worker in America is catching up, and over time, the burden of these prices will go down, as long as our economy stays robust. 
That's why we're getting inflation to 2 percent. That's why we still want to make sure that we're hitting our maximum employment mandate, because with those two things, then the working of the economy will position all American families to be better able to handle the prices, and ultimately, we'll get to a place where the prices don't seem like a shock, and they still are left with a lot more money in their pockets than they had before. 
So the economy is a cyclical, living, breathing animal, right, because we're old enough, we can remember the 70s and what that was like. Will we ever get to that level again, you think, or do you guys have a control of that where it will never get to that level? So I think what we learned— Or never say never. Well, I'm going to try to say never. 
So what I think we learned in the 60s and 70s episode is that inflation is very painful, and if you let it get too far out of control, it has very bad implications for where the economy is going to go. So I think the willingness of central banks, not just in this country, but globally, to accept very high inflation at those levels where you're 18%, the willingness to do that is very, very low. 
And so I don't think we're going to go back there. I think we've learned our lesson, and we will act aggressively when inflation moves to higher levels. We did that this time, and inflation went to 7. It was not at 1970s levels. So I think I have a lot of confidence that this central bank will make sure that we don't get too far out of whack. 
So when you guys lowered the interest rate, you lowered it at a pretty good chunk, 0.50. Some were expecting 0.25. Why the decision to go as high as you did in lowering as much as you did as opposed to using a smaller number? I think about this in two contexts. So one is the pandemic context, right? So the pandemic has led to outsized responses to everything. 
The jobs fell very quickly right at the beginning of the pandemic. The rebound was very fast at the pandemic. Prices moved very quickly during the pandemic. We moved our policy rate at a higher than normal level in the pandemic. So in that context, we're still dealing with pandemic. I know people want the pandemic to be over. It's not completely over. 
A lot of the forces that we're triggering that are still influencing this economy. So in the pandemic context, an outsized first step, I think, was not problematic. I was very comfortable with that. And I would also say that, you know, when we were in the raising phase, I told everyone, who's listening to me at least, that the prices, we were going to stay there for a long time. 
And we stayed at this restrictive level for a historically long time, much longer than you would see. And in that instance, I think the first step might be more appropriate to be larger than you would think otherwise, because just everything has been amplified. 
And so that kind of adjustment made sense to me. Now, the other thing that is useful, I think, is that there's still a lot of uncertainty in the economy. Is the economy slowing down? Are prices going to come down, particularly on the services side? How long can the consumer continue to be as resilient as it's been for the last year, when we know that the excess savings or the extra savings people have had are starting to shrink increasingly? 
So with that, I think the larger move positions us well for any eventuality. And so I think we are very well positioned to manage or deal with anything that comes up. I would say that move is going to help us experience a softer landing. All right. So I never use those words. Let me use it for you. Softer landing. Yeah. He said it. Just for the record. Look, a recession has never been in my outlook. 
I've always felt that there was enough momentum in this economy to absorb the restrictiveness of our policy and drive inflation back down to its 2% target. I'm grateful that that's been playing out so well. But the job is not done. And we need to make sure that we are vigilant to notice the changes, any change that happens that suggests that we might not be moving in that direction. Now, my outlook is we're going to get there. 
So I want to be very clear on that. We're not in a recession today. Labor markets are strong. They're a little weaker than they were a year ago, but they're not weak. Inflation has come down a long way. Those are all very good things. And my job now is to make sure that we consolidate that and take it all the way home. 
So we're here today supporting what Selina is doing with this organization. And for those of you who haven't seen in your program, MPB has joined on as a partner. We created an academic bowl about this, what they're doing in the classrooms, and we're broadcasting that challenge. You can look at our website to find out when those will air. But the reality of it is education is key to success. 
M
We're here to support what they're doing in the classroom. Why does the Fed find that supportive? Why would you? Because you're an academic. You got a Ph.D. How do you see that lining up for these kids to learn how to write a check and balance a checkbook and know those things as they enter life? 
BOSTIC
Well, first, thank you for your support. This is really important stuff. Our bank has been working on this long before I got here. We have a whole team that spends a lot of time running programs to educate teachers on how to teach economic topics. We have a lot of material online that anyone can access. It's for free. You can go download it, use it, because this is so important. 
This has been a soapbox issue for me for a long time. My very first job out of graduate school, I spoke to a group almost as big as this one, and we were talking about managing credit. These were middle-level managers, all with good jobs, and a bunch of them were carrying large balances on their credit card. I was shocked. 
I was like, how is this possible? That is a burden that is going to prevent you from doing a whole host of other things. It dawned on me that I learned that sort of by accident. I happened to have the parents that I had, and they were very strict on this stuff to make sure I knew the things that I needed to know. I didn't get that in a school situation. 
We weren't trying to guarantee that every person knew the things to do, to not do, knew when they might be getting into trouble and have people that they can look to to ask questions of. And so for me, and then the other thing we know, when you get in trouble early, it stays with you for a long time, and it prevents you from being able to do all the things that we want you to do. 
So this is critical, just critical, on so many levels. And then, because of where I sit, there's a whole other angle to this, which is we need more people working in economics and finance fields. We need more people with varied experiences doing it, because they will have different views about why certain decisions get made, how certain markets work. 
That can really help us have a better sense of how to build our models, what questions we should be asking, who should we be talking to to really understand what's going on, and then ultimately translate that knowledge into changes in our incentive structures, so that the economy works better for everyone, so that we actually understand how we're setting things up, because people pay attention. 
People notice when the rules suggest you should go certain places, and I don't know that we're as sensitive to those things as we could be. 
So I want as many people in this space contributing to the conversation, because that'll make us all better off. 
M
So what do you see as the biggest challenges that we should be teaching the kids as they get ready to launch their career, whether they go to college and after college, economic challenges? 
BOSTIC
So one, I'm going to say this in a couple of ways. Okay, so let me just say, I hate what is the one thing question. 
So I'm going to say like four or five of them, so just get ready for that. So one is that everybody can be good in economics. Economics is not Greek, it is not rocket science, and so many people, when they go to hear an economist talk, they expect, I'm not going to understand anything, this is over my head, this is too hard for me, that is wrong. 
So one thing that we all need to do, and that's another reason why we are doing our work at the Federal Reserve, is we want everyone to see themselves as the next great economist, as the next great finance person, and give them opportunities to do that, and that's really important. 
A second thing that I think is important, just from an economics perspective, is an acknowledgement that the world is changing incredibly rapidly. I feel like the change is accelerating in terms of how technology is affecting us. When I was growing up, they didn't have personal computers, we didn't have iPhones or any of those sorts of things. I was talking to students today, I mentioned Xerox, they had no idea what Xerox was. 
And so that kind of change means that we have to be, we have to have a mindset of adaptability to accept and expect that things are going to evolve, and then be sufficiently elastic to apply that knowledge in new ways in these new contexts, and that's really important. A third thing that, for me, is to acknowledge and get people to think broadly about risk, and that risk can emerge from many, many different places, and so you have to have a plan. 
The economy is going to work in a certain way, but as the risks change, the supply curve, the demand curve, all those things are going to shift, and we need to be thinking about those sorts of elements so that as I build my strategy for investment or for my business or for investing my human capital, I'm thinking in these multidimensional ways so that as things evolve, I know how I can pivot to position myself most effectively. 
M
So with the economic disruptions that we've had and the pandemic that we've had, are these real strong teaching moments for our students, and then if so, what would you say are some of the two, three, four, or five ideas that you would give to these teachers and these counselors? 
BOSTIC
So the pandemic is super interesting. First of all, I never imagined I would be living in a pandemic, right, and the changes that have happened have been, some of them have been short-run, some of them are not going to be short-run. A couple weeks ago, we hosted a conference focused on AI and work from home, and those are two things that have evolved in this era. The work from home, nobody was working from home pre-pandemic. 
Some research would suggest now that I think 25% of all professional working hours are work from home, are done at home. That's a sea change, and it has implications for how all of these other markets are going to function, commercial real estate, restaurants, so the geographic distribution of restaurants is evolving, where people are spending the same amount of money, but a lot more of it is close to their home address than it was before, how we think about economic development, and so there are real opportunities to use these evolutions, or this evolution, to get people to think about, okay, so if everyone worked from home, where would you expect to see the biggest impacts? 
And let's have a conversation about that, and it would get people to be more sensitive about all the different interconnectedness, or the interconnectedness that exists in the world, and all the different ways that we are influenced that we may not think about in a particularly explicit way. 
I think there is a lot going on there, and it's very interesting. Child care implications, the number of families that have decided that the second earner was really just covering child care, so if we don't have the second earner, we can stay home, we like that. There are lots of decisions that are being made, and the other interesting thing on this is that I don't think we're done. 
I think in many of these topics, we don't know the answer. So what is the right number of days for people to work from home? I talk to 30 businesses, they give me 35 answers, right? Everyone has a different model for what this looks like, and we are learning in real time. So it's a really interesting time, there's a lot of dynamic things that are happening.
M
Now it's your turn. So if you want to ask a question, please make your way to the center here where the microphone is and While you do just come on up and I'll recognize you and you can ask your question Brother Ben you can be the first one Welcome to Mississippi once again, I want to ask you a southern question Advanced manufacturing has taken off over the last 20-25 years in states like, Mississippi and It's really encouraging because it's opened the door to Innovation and people and now technology, Mississippi recently announced a 10 billion dollar investment from AWS Amazon Web Services Can you speak to why the South has become so attractive to From an economic development standpoint and then what's going to be the key to the sustainability of this growth? 
BOSTIC
So that's a that's a hard question, I'm always reluctant to speak for executives of other companies but I will say that Some of the cost infrastructure in the South is lower. 
So I moved to Atlanta from Los Angeles and the cost of it to just to acquire a parcel in LA is So much higher than anything here that if you have a business that requires a lot of acreage and a lot of these factories require that The math is just different And so I think the math drives a fair amount of this and there's a there's a lot of land around at favorable prices.  
Second piece that to be thoughtful about is the availability of the workforce as well You've got to have people who are there who can do these jobs And it's and it's not just today. You have to have confidence that as turnover happens There's going to be someone else to backfill that job As I go to some a lot of smaller places, it's that second part. 
That's the problem I think firms will tell me I can get there But but five years from now, I'm not sure I will still be able to be there and so showing that there's an infrastructure that allows for people with skills To be present and available for working is really important. 
And so I would say those would be the two things a third thing Increasingly is power It's been it's very interesting a lot of the the industries that are evolving today Require a tremendous amount of power and so questions about like power generating capacity Have become far more important in the just the last couple years Then I would ever have imagined like when I started this job. 
Nobody was talking about. Is there enough power? As a as a question to ask and locating a business today That is much more common these data centers and and other types of manufacturing. They just require a lot And it is putting burdens on the grid Nationwide and so it is this question about how do we actually do the stuff that we want to do? 
M
Good to be here. Dr. Bostic. I have a two questions one you can make yes or no if you want first leading up to the pandemic central bank independence was a Little bit more of a topic that people who are attending to that has kind of fallen off the radar Although there have been some overtures during the presidential election I'm just hoping you could talk about your your outlook the the Fed in general's outlook about Where that discussion about central bank independence might be going and then also I teach introductory Macro at the collegiate level. What are the tools you'd like me emphasizing the Fed tools? 
BOSTIC
You'd like me I'm sizing for my students and if you want to make that a yes or no question Should I keep telling them about the reserve requirement? Yes So Fed independence it's critical The separation between fiscal and monetary policy, I think allows both to be more effective Our lane and monetary policy is really be thinking about the longer term horizon the fiscal and Setting a general environment fiscal deals with shorter run issues, but also can do more targeted sectoral and investments and interventions. 
And that separation I think is quite helpful They they can be mutually reinforcing but sometimes the short-run interest will make it harder to achieve your long-run goal And so by having that mix it can be quite difficult. So so that's that the third question he asked Oh Tools I Love that question because we have a ton of them on our website. I I would say go to the Atlanta Fed website We show a lot of different. 
We have a lot of different tools to show dynamics So we have GDP now, which is a forecast. It's a now cast of what GDP is likely to be every quarter People try to beat GDP now and they never can by the end of the quarter What our think model says is what it turns out to be right now GDP now is saying the performance for this quarter is going to be about three and a half is still Quite strong in terms of percent. 
We have an underlying inflation dashboard so you can see over a varying set of measures How we're doing in inflation and the reason I we built this one was because right before the pandemic the PCE and for indicator, which is the one that's our preferred was the lowest of all the measures And so people were saying we're not the economy's not getting there kind of not getting there. 
But it's like if you looked at any other measure We were there So I wanted people to see the totality of the possibility and we've still shown that it's been less useful or less Interesting with inflation high everywhere, but I think we're about to get back into range where you're going to be able to learn things there We have a wage growth tracker. 
So we track we show how wage growth is evolving Overtime is how I how I knew we're above inflation because we're tracking this thing And we actually and you can split it out lots of ways so you can say what's what's happening on wage growth for those who stay in their job as opposed to those who switch jobs and Historically job switchers show higher wage growth than job stayers. 
That's not true today in this moment, which is actually a very interesting Reality and says something about the weakening in the economy But we have lots of those tools We have a home ownership affordability monitor that our supervision folks do that goes metru area by metro area Assessing the extent to which housing is affordable locally and we do that for homeownership and for renter renters So I could go on and on and on go to the website Atlanta fed org and just snoop around. 
It's all free It's all available and I would encourage everyone to take advantage of those things. 
M
How soon do you think the prime rates will go under seven percent So we have some bankers in the room.
BOSTIC
Great question. Do any of you want to take this up? So That's a hard question for me to answer in the sense that The prime rate is about more than just the Fed Funds rate, right? So it's about assessments of risk It's about fee structure all those sorts of things. What I will say is In my outlook Interest rates will continue to fall. 
I can't promise a particular timetable or trajectory for this but if the economy continues to evolve as it does at if Inflation continues to fall labor markets remain robust and we still see positive production We will be able to continue on the path back to neutral So if we do that if all that happens and if we do that My guess is the prime rate will be lower than lower in six months than it is today And that'll be a good thing I Thank you for being here. 
M
It's definitely worth missing homecoming Friday at my school. I teach I Teach econ and AP macro micro. Excuse me What is the thought about the declining labor force participation rate that we've been seeing over the past 20 years Especially post COVID. 
BOSTCI
There's been a like a huge drop It seems like I know Mississippi is about 52% and so we there there's such a focus and full employment and Unemployment rate and so everybody looks at our state like we're at 4% 3.9 And yet we're sitting at a 52% labor force participation rate. So is there any talk? Is that even a correlation that y'all look at a concern because post COVID? 
There's been a large group that of people that have not entered back into the labor force So so great question. We think about this all the time. So I get in my briefings labor force participation comes up and What's happened? We've been measuring it our benchmark Has been the month before the pandemic the month before we got to go was a February January of 2020 And we've been tracking it and what's been interesting is that labor force participation in all groups dropped? 
But now today labor force participation for your working-age folks 25 to 55 It's actually higher than it was Pre pandemic Participation for seniors and for young people are lower right, and so we have to think about the implication for that and what that means. 
About a year ago, there was a lot of talk about how women were coming back to the workforce in In stronger numbers than we might have expected. So we do think about labor force participation a lot It's an important measure and important metric and it it look The number of people working will drive how much gets produced All right, so participation rates are critical that for Mississippi. 
I don't know the statistics here as well I know for your neighbor in Alabama That one of the sources of their lower labor force participation is poor health And so if the health low quality in Alabama was what it was Everywhere else they would have a three percentage point increase in their labor force participation Which translates to lots of jobs and lots of output and lots of income that could be quite helpful So it is something that everybody should be thinking about and talking about. 
Oh, let me just say one other thing the long Trend Downward, which is accurate is I think driven almost completely by demographics We're an aging society. 
And so the number of people who are going into retirement The baby boomers is a large cohort that backfill is not coming back as robustly And so people just just if you do a demographics table the number of people you would expect to be in the workforce is Falling over time And that that then brings into question questions Like where are we going to work workers from and all those things which are at the forefront of a lot of the conversations? You're you're seeing every day. 
M
We'll take three more questions. Go ahead First it's an honor to have you here, sir See you on TV all the time The other thing I want to know I'm a small business person here I do investments as well as insurance as my background and I'm wondering there's a lot of discussion on digital currency and what that might mean It seems like the velocity of the money would increase but also this underground economy in addition to Illegal aliens and people paying them under the table just cash and that would end So suddenly there's going to be a lot more people who would have to pay Social Security Medicare so forth. So does the Federal Reserve sort of look at that? Is there discussion about that? 
BOSTIC
We certainly look at it. I want to Break this into multiple pieces On some level today. We already have digital currency So you all can be on your phone you hit a few buttons money starts moving places You haven't had any cash. You haven't done anything like that, right? so so so on some level the technology is allowing us to operate as if we had the equivalent of a digital currency the dollar is being digitized and if you think about Silicon Valley Bank and the failure of that bank. 
It was because you had a bunch of venture capitalists and small business folks And they were they were you know, the story in The Wealthy Journal said they were on a resort in Montana Got an email and then started moving money, right? 
They didn't have to go to a bank teller They don't have to fill out a withdrawal slip or any of those you just hit a button Like that sounds like digital currency to me and then to the ish to the to the point raised about Fraud and all that sort of thing. 
I don't I'm not sure how that plays out in the sense that a person-to-person Venmo Like I don't need to know anything about who Where they are from how they set their account what thing in the back like we're not we are not able to track it in that way In the way that digital currency moves in today's economy. 
M
Now I thought you were going to go another way which is around a central bank digital currency Where there would be currency issued by the Federal Reserve.
BOSTIC
Right, that's that's and there's another proposal for that that's out there and we wrote a white paper several years ago We're I think it had more questions than it had answers. 
There's a lot of things that would have to be resolved. I think for me  the biggest issues are around questions that we don't have authority on. So in the central bank digital currency context, we would actually every one of you would have an account with us and then if for federal payments for Social Security or whatever, we would just zip it from us to your account. If we did that, we would then know where your money was and we know exactly where it went after that. Because of the nature of this, so there are questions about privacy and information things and we don't make those decisions right. 
That's stuff that the Congress would have to do and so if in thinking about this in the broader context, there's a lot of other things that would have to happen in order for us to be able to do this and in this country now. Because I'm guessing if if we were able to track everyone's payments and stuff people wouldn't be happy with that and We would then have to have a different conversation other parts of the world. 
That's not as much of an issue. And so, you know our context I think in particular makes it difficult to do the central bank digital currency. If we did that, we would be able to have more controls on things though. 
So so there's there's give-and-take on all of these and sort of other policy makers have to make some judgment. 
And we'll follow that so we're up against the clock.
M
I'm gonna have to ask this be the last question so we can move on and go right ahead to ask your question Welcome again, dr. Bosley I'm an educator and this may be more personal than it can know economic but I've been in 20 years I have five more for retirement at this point a lot of my co-workers have to decide What do we do? Do we go back to school going to admin? Do we do more deferred comp do we do more in stocks? I guess my question is would you advise more? What would you advise more of because a lot of teachers we love to teach and it's the cost You know, we talked about opportunity costs. It's a cost to go back to school when you're so close to retirement and it just It just kind of shakes you up this close because you talked about earlier job swappers Swapping jobs. What would be more beneficial? 
BOSTIC
We don't talk about it. I think Enough when we talk about moving in different jobs in education Goodness so As the last question like this you could do a whole you could do a whole show on this like this question about What what are the options for teachers as they think about different careers? to me, I think there's the question is where do we have lacks of knowledge and how do we fill them and That's that's an interesting discussion to have the other thing I wonder about is Oh Yeah, I was wondering about it and then I another thought came into my So look, I think that we're about to be in an environment where? 
People are gonna have to get new sets of skills to be competitive for the jobs of tomorrow That is going to require a lot of instruction a lot of framework a lot of infrastructure put in place to facilitate that If we're gonna do that well at scale now, we're doing a bunch of stuff now to explore strategies and different models of what that looks like but the scale question is going to come to us quickly and So we're gonna have to figure this out. 
I think there may be opportunities there that could be quite interesting.
M
 Ricky from labaki were software educational company. We do a lot of traveling visiting school districts and we've noticed that there's a huge disparity with the Economic economic standard of living across the state. What are some of the strategies that are being implemented long-term? 
BOSTIC
Of course to address this disparity throughout, Mississippi and other southeastern states They waited for the big ones for the end I Think I Think there needs to be creativity We need we know that more resources can help but I think there's a pretty healthy Literature that also says that more resources alone Can't get it done. 
And so thinking about what skills are needed for the future thinking about what are the modes of Instructive teaching to give people those skills and then on the backside what pathways might we create? 
So that there is an obvious Or an easy way that once you get the skills you can get a job And we have challenges in all three of those and I think the places that are able to manage that. Well, we'll do better I'll say This isn't all just about I think this is important. This isn't all just about the new edge cutting-edge jobs In America for quite some time. 
We've had severe shortages in The trades welders plumbers electricians carpenters and There we're still going to need them So so this is a wide range of pathways We one of our tools we have online is an occupation an opportunity occupations monitor and we go county by county We say what jobs are there in these counties that don't require you to get four to six years of education. 
But you can get that give you a living wage Right and having conversations about what a pathway might look like to get more people into these professions is one that I think is is worth having and one that we're trying to facilitate with our tools and the experts that we Send around the 6th district.
M
Please give it up for dr. Bostic. Thank you for your time madam chair What An amazing time There we go. What an amazing day. 