*********Greetings, everyone. Well, we have more clarity now in terms of the investment landscape after the election. And I wanted to talk a little bit about deja vu for me. I started my career really in the early 80s. And at the time we had the Reagan administration and a lot of controversy about everything, much of which we're hearing today, the same kinds of controversy. So I wanted to take you a little bit through the macros, what the Trump administration says it wants versus what might likely happen given that backdrop, as well as how this clarity is going to impact the world of innovation, the world of transformative innovation. And we believe the world is transforming in miraculous ways. So we want to take you through some of that and how this administration, its policies are probably going to accelerate these changes. So let's talk about macros first. In the early days of the Reagan administration, there were back-to-back recessions and interest rates hit 15%. And that was a very difficult environment for investing. Well, President Trump is coming into office when that part of the equivalent in the Reagan administration has been done. And I remember after that, the 80s and 90s were the golden age of active equity investing. And I think we're going back there. First of all, in terms of the controversy, a deficit back then after back-to-back recessions, 5.5%. The bond market was apoplectic about that, investors were as well. And what they didn't understand is that the Reagan policies of tax cuts, along with lower interest rates caused by Volcker, moving from double-digit interest rates to something much lower, that those were going to be very positive for economic growth and that we were going to grow our way out of the deficit. That growth out of the deficit started in the 80s with the Reagan administration and finished in the 90s with the Clinton administration, taking us into a surplus. We think we're going to experience somewhat of the same thing this time around. The tax cuts, we believe, are critically important, especially if Trump makes good on his tariff promise. Now, I'm not a big fan of tariffs myself, but if we're going to pair tariffs, not on our free trade partners, but on those countries that really are not giving American goods and services a level playing field, but we counter them at home with lower tax rates for consumers and businesses, that's a trade-off. That's a good trade-off. And so I don't think the criticism about tariffs is going to play out in terms of 100% across the board. That's not what we're talking about here. I think President Trump is very pro-growth, and he's not going to do anything to impede growth in that way. He wants the dollar down. He thinks that will make us more competitive. What I think will happen is the returns on invested capital in the United States relative to those elsewhere in the world, they're going to increase, and that is going to attract more capital, which will actually boost the dollar. Now in terms of interest rates, the dollar going up is anti-inflationary, as is the productivity growth associated with a burst in activity caused by lower tax rates and other incentives for investing. So if inflation is going to surprise on the low side of expectations, that's going to be very good for innovation-driven strategies. What happened during the last four years, actually, is the burst of inflation caused by many things, but COVID, supply chain, money growth exploding, even though the Fed has gotten all of that under control, I think a lot of investors have had trouble believing that it would stay under control. The way inflation will stay under control is productivity growth, and we're already seeing strong productivity growth thanks to artificial intelligence and other new technologies, as well as actually the dollar firming. Most commodity prices are priced in dollars. Most commodities are priced in dollars, I should say, and the dollar going up means downward pressure on commodity prices. That's a very good thing as well. So what will happen to interest rates here? Now this is a little different from the 80s. Interest rates were so high at the beginning of the 80s, 15%, that really, if the Reagan administration got anything right, those interest rates would come down, and they certainly have. Now 45 years later, they are high relative to recent history, 5% on the Fed funds rate, and they are restrictive relative to where we see inflation going. So we do believe there will be a downward pressure on interest rates, maybe even more than many investors expect in the near term, because I think a lot of activity is going to be held back by a desire to understand how policies are going to change in the future. If we believe tax rates are going to come down, we're probably going to wait. If we're businesses and consumers, this is classic. It even happened during the Reagan administration when he phased in tax cuts over three years. Most people just waited until the tax rates were at the point he had promised. So we probably will see some holding back of activity in the next year in anticipation of even lower tax rates. So I think interest rates will be biased to the downside. Thereafter, I think we're going to see an explosion in productivity growth. That's what the convergence among the major innovation platforms around which we've centered our research. So robotics, energy storage, artificial intelligence, blockchain technology, and multi-omic sequencing in the healthcare space. Those platforms are converging and we believe are going to unlock explosive productivity growth, explosive GDP growth, and much lower than expected inflation, because all of these platforms are deflationary. They're technologically enabled, and that's good deflation. As prices fall, units explode, and it's really important. The reason we give our research away, it's important for investors and individuals and businesses to get on the right side of change, because these are transformative technologies. So in terms of government policies, perhaps the most profound thing that's going to happen in the very near term is a changing of the guard at some of the regulatory agencies, the SEC and the FTC, the SEC menace to the digital assets movement. We've lost a lot of talent to other countries because of Chairman Gensler, and I think that's going to change. We know it's going to change. President Trump has come out very positively predisposed to certainly Bitcoin, but we think everything crypto, DeFi or decentralized financial services, and so that's going to be very exciting. The regulations are also going to change, because we're probably going to see Lina Khan at the FTC leave her position, and of course, the strong-armed antitrust regulations that Lina Khan has abided by, those are going to go away. They've prevented mergers and acquisitions that we absolutely need. Large companies are looking at these smaller companies innovating and perhaps being very disruptive to their models, and they'll probably want to get some of that DNA into their companies. I think the regulatory cutbacks are going to be profound. In his first administration, President Trump said to regulators, you want to put in a new regulation, you have to take away two. I think that he'll be even stronger on that, and of course, when it comes to government spending, he's inviting Elon Musk under the tent. The deficit will go down, we think, because of growth, but also we think the inefficiencies in the government are extreme, and we do believe that Elon Musk's first principles-based white sheet of paper will figure out ways through attrition, in terms of headcount, and technology, productivity gains, to really shrink the government as a percent of GDP, getting a lot of the waste out of the government, and of course, every president has promised that. I think this one will deliver with the help of Elon Musk. We do not believe that Elon's going to be leaving his companies. We do believe he'll put in place a process that will be reinforced by some of the people who will be attracted to this goal and want to be a part of helping him carry it out. There we go, that's the macros. In terms of innovation, we think it's been brewing, really, for the last 25 years. The seeds for everything we're seeing today were planted in the years when active management was in full stride, the 20 years that ended in the late 90s, the internet revolution. Since then, we think that government policies have impeded a lot of innovation, but behind the scenes, the seeds have been flourishing. Now we think the blossoms are out. Innovation is going to thrive now in this new environment. We think the three biggest opportunities right now associated with the convergence of these technologies are in the autonomous mobility space, so everything, robo-taxi drones and so forth, healthcare, and digital assets. I'll just give you a quick one on healthcare, because many people short innovation altogether, truly transformative innovation, thinking that the broad-based indexes have that covered. We don't think they do, and especially not in healthcare. We think that a few of the things that the new Trump administration has been saying, they want to clean up the corruption within healthcare. I think what they mean by that is lobbyists have taken over for years and years and years, and they want to break that stronghold, and really bring back, this is a quote, the rich tradition of the gold standard evidence-based science. That's going to be amazing for what we're calling the multi-omics revolution. In a year where our next generation internet strategy, which covers not only artificial intelligence, but blockchain technology, digital wallets, the fintech revolution, that strategy has outperformed the market this year, a very strong year, and it did so with very little exposure to the concentration in the broad-based indices. In other words, it's a differentiated exposure to AI, digital wallets, the fintech revolution. On the other hand, the multi-omics revolution space and strategy has been pummeled in the past year. I think it is for a couple of reasons, certainly regulatory, no M&A, but also a profound misunderstanding of what innovation is going to bring to the healthcare space. It will be transformed, perhaps like no other sector. It is the most profound application of artificial intelligence that we see out there, curing diseases. I just have to tell you, in learning what the financial markets, how they perceive these companies that are curing disease, this is not about the future, it's happening now. CRISPR Therapeutics is a company whose drugs have been approved in both the U.S. and the U.K. and Europe, as a matter of fact, those three areas, curing sickle cell disease and beta thalassemia. Many analysts are not interested in these spaces, rare diseases, too small, cures, one and done, there's no annuity. We need chronic sickness to get these annuity drugs out there to control the symptoms. We're astonished as we think about the kinds of analysis that is treating this space so badly right now. We think that's going to change. We think that's going to change magnificently in the years ahead. On the digital asset front, I mentioned that Bitcoin is very much a part of this administration's plans, including building a strategic reserve. We're very excited about that. We think that this is the layer of the internet that the developers in the early 90s did not build in. We were at risk because of the SEC of losing this next big wave of the internet all around commerce, financial services, digital property rights, and now we think this administration is going to bring that innovation back home where it started and we're going to ride that wave again. We're pretty excited about what has just happened from an innovation point of view. We think that deregulation is critical and really allowing innovation, one of the biggest runs it will ever have in history now that these technologies are ready after 25 years of germinating. We couldn't be more excited. We hope you'll join us on this journey, read our research. We give it away on ark-invest.com and whether you're an investor or a person interested in getting onto the right side of change, a student or a person thinking about the next wave of your careers, read our research and join us. This is going to be a very, very exciting revolution. Thank you. Thank you. 