WHEN:20241015
WHO:Bostic
WHAT:"Now, the goal for me is to have our policy not have to be restrictive or accommodating. I think the goal is to have the economy be able to stand on its own, continue to produce jobs, continue to innovate, continue to produce output, have consumers continue to spend. That level of policy rate, people talk about—they describe it as the neutral rate. It's a rate that we have that just allows things to go. We're not pushing. We're not putting the brakes on. For me, the neutral rate is somewhere in the 3 to 3.5% range. We're right now at 4.75%. So there's a ways to go. One last thing I would just say, I'm not in a rush to get to neutral. We must get inflation back to our 2% target. And I don't want us to get to a place where inflation stalls out because we haven't been restrictive for long enough. So I'm going to be patient.""So in that outlook, I have us getting (inflation) to target somewhere toward the end of 2025. The inflation targets are getting back to something close to 2% by then. So that says that that should be sort of the timetable for when we should get to neutral."

WHEN:20241021
WHO:Daly
WHAT:"Looking ahead, I expect additional cuts going forward to continue as inflation comes down, to continue to ensure that we do two things simultaneously: get inflation to 2% and create the conditions for a durable expansion. That is my definition of a soft landing, a durable expansion that continues to grow jobs and businesses and delivers 2% inflation.""But this was really a call that I came down strongly on 50 (bp rate cut in September meeting) after, you know, deliberating with myself and my colleagues and others is that, you know, ultimately we had been very patient and I think that was appropriate to ensure that we were really on a path that we believed was sustainable towards 2%.""And you asked the question right at the beginning, is policy still tight? And in my judgment, it absolutely is. If you looked at the real rate of interest against historical heights, this is a very tight interest rate for an economy that already is on a path to 2% inflation, and as I don’t want to see the labor market slow further.""So those pieces of information are, what inform my sense that my assessment that inflation is continuing to come down. We don’t hear a lot about pass through. Consumers are trading down, and we don’t see firms falling off a cliff and saying the economy is terrible. But I also don’t see them robustly going out and increasing their hiring plans. They’re really steady in the boat, cautiously optimistic. And to get this soft landing accomplished and to have a durable expansion, we have to adjust the policy rate as inflation falls.""You saw my expression when you said over 4 (percent of the neutral rate). I mean, I think ultimately a reasonable estimate, in my judgment. Now there’s a range of estimates, and everybody has a different model and a different estimate of, because it is hard to measure, and it’s certainly not known. It’s not a truth, but I think a reasonable estimate is between two and a half and 3% for the nominal neutral. But we’ll learn if it’s higher experientially, because as we lower the interest rate, we’ll see economic activity reaccelerate or inflation not go down as fast. And that’s a sign that policy is not quite as tight."

WHEN:20241024
WHO:Hammack
WHAT:

WHEN:20241116
WHO:Barkin
WHAT:"Consumers have been frustrated by high prices for a while, but they're finally acting on it. They're buying on promotion. They're trading down. They're going to lower price outlets. You can look at earnings reports of the everyday low price guys, and you can see it. Consumers are making choices, and those choices are sending messages to price setters that their pricing power has just gotten limited.""And so it's a low-hiring, low-firing environment. That doesn't feel to me like a long-term equilibrium. It feels to me like either people are going to end up trusting demand, finding that they're short-staffed, and hiring again, or feeling the margins compressed and starting to lay people off. In my conversations, that's why I then push on, are you planning layoffs? And I have to say, you're just not hearing it at any scale. And you know well it takes time to plan a layoff.""That's a sign we're restrictive. It's just hard to know whether we're somewhat restrictive, a little bit restrictive, very restrictive. And you've seen in the SEP the broad range of estimates of me and my colleagues. We'll just have to figure it out as we go.""I think about it in two phases. There's recalibration, and then there's normalization. Recalibration is what we've been doing, which is to say with inflation as close to target as it's been, with unemployment as close to the natural rate as it's been, the one number that seemed a little out of sync was the Fed funds rate. And so you can afford to bring that down to a somewhat less restrictive level. And so that's what we've done in the last couple of meetings. You're gonna have to then turn to normalization. When we start to normalize rates in a world with an uncertain R star and an uncertain forecast for the economy, you probably do wanna be a little bit more careful."

WHEN:20241113
WHO:Musalem
WHAT:"I would like to share three key messages. First, the FOMC’s dual mandate goals of maximum employment and price stability are within sight. Second, it is appropriate for monetary policy to remain moderately restrictive while inflation remains above the FOMC’s 2% target. Third, monetary policy is well positioned to return inflation to target and support maximum employment through gradual adjustments of the policy rate toward a neutral level over time, provided inflation continues to fall toward 2%.""My baseline scenario reflects an expectation that monetary policy remains appropriately restrictive while inflation remains above 2%. The recent reductions in the FOMC’s target range for the federal funds rate lessened but did not eliminate policy restraint. Further easing toward a neutral policy stance will be appropriate to support employment if inflation continues to converge toward 2%. Shifting from my baseline to alternative scenarios, recent information suggests to me that the risk of inflation ceasing to converge toward 2%, or moving higher, has risen, while the risk of an unwelcome deterioration in the labor market has remained unchanged or possibly fallen."

WHEN:20241113
WHO:Schmid
WHAT:"But before gazing into the crystal ball, let’s look back at the FOMC’s decision last week. On Thursday, the FOMC cut its policy rate by a ¼ percentage point, following a ½ point cut in September. These cuts came after a year of holding rates flat and, before that, a rapid increase in rates as the Fed moved to address the spike in inflation that followed the pandemic. The decision to lower rates is an acknowledgement of the Committee’s growing confidence that inflation is on a path to reach the Fed’s 2% objective—a confidence based in part on signs that both labor and product markets have come into better balance in recent months. While now is the time to begin 2 dialing back the restrictiveness of monetary policy, it remains to be seen how much further interest rates will decline or where they might eventually settle."

WHEN:20241115
WHO:Collins
WHAT:"So, I think it's important to say there's no preset path. I do see rates as still in the restrictive range, which means that over time, some amount of easing will be appropriate. But, you know, the economy is in a very good place right now, and inflation is coming back down to target. The labor markets are healthy. We're seeing solid growth. The goal of policy is really to sustain that healthy set of conditions, recognizing, you know, there are risks on both sides. And so I think we're well positioned. I certainly wouldn't take another ease in the next meeting off the table. But again, we're not in a preset path.""I'm not seeing evidence of new price pressures. And so, I think it's important to stay the course, but that analysis of the data is part of why I thought it was really appropriate for us to begin easing in September, and to be in an environment where we are really looking over time methodically, perhaps patiently, to be normalizing policy, to maintain those healthy conditions that I talked about a moment ago.""So looking at averages over time, looking at the range of information, what I see is a labor market that looks similar to conditions that we've considered full employment.""So I think that, I agree that I don't see a big urgency (of rate cuts) at the same time.""And so, as I said before, I do see financial, the policy stances being in a restrictive place, and over time normalizing that I think is going to be important."

WHEN:20241115
WHO:Goolsbee
WHAT:"And to do that and hold it in that kind of position, I think we're gonna be looking at rates coming down over the next year along the lines of what the dot plot said. So I still think we have a long way to go down with rates.""And I'm comfortable personally that if there's some dispute about what is the neutral rate at which we're gonna settle down, if there's disagreement about that, that we don't just charge right to it, that we slow the pace as we get toward it. But again, this is playing out over a longer period, I think.""It's significantly lower than where we are now, definitely. I mean, I don't think it's a secret. If you take the dot plot SEPs, it looked like a pretty wide consensus among the members of the committee where they're asked individually, we don't debate those points, that almost everyone views that the long run settling rate of interest rates is somewhere well below where it is today. So, that's why I say, as long as we're staying on this path that we've been on, I view that interest rates need to come down a fair amount over the next 12 to 18 months.""If you thought the economy is overheating and that we're getting off the through line of improvement and going to an overheated posture, the Fed has to, we committed, we're going to get inflation back to 2%. Now, I think the question mark to remember on all of this is, we've had very robust productivity growth now for a year plus. And if productivity growth is higher than trend as it has been, and that continues, then you got to be a little careful over indexing on the growth rate of GDP as an indicator of whether the economy is overheating. Because if productivity is rising, you can have faster growth without generating more inflation."

