Good afternoon, my colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dual mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Our economy has made considerable progress toward both goals over the past two years. The labor market has come into better balance and the unemployment rate remains low. Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7% to 2.5%. We are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2% goal in support of a strong economy that benefits everyone. 
Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. We are maintaining our restrictive stance of monetary policy in order to keep demand in line with supply and reduce inflationary pressures. We are attentive to risks on both sides of our dual mandate and I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. 
Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace. GDP growth moderated to 2.1% in the first half of the year, down from 3.1% last year. Private domestic final purchases or PDFP, which excludes inventory investment, government spending, and net exports and usually sends a clearer signal of underlying demand, grew at a 2.6% pace over that same period, the first half. Growth of consumer spending has slowed from last year's robust pace but remains solid. Investment in equipment and intangibles has picked up from its anemic pace last year. In the housing sector, investment still remains in the second quarter after a strong rise in the first. Improving supply conditions have supported resilient demand and the strong performance of the U.S. economy over the past year. 
In the labor market, supply and demand conditions have come into better balance. Payroll job gains averaged 177,000 jobs per month in the second quarter, a solid pace but below that seen in the first quarter. The unemployment rate has moved up, but remains low at 4.1%. Strong job creation over the past couple of years has been accompanied by an increase in the supply of workers, reflecting increases in participation among individuals aged 25 to 54 years and a strong pace of immigration. Nominal wage growth has eased over the past year and the jobs to workers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of economic and financial benefits overall a broad set of indicators suggest that conditions in the labor market have returned to about where they stood on the eve of the pandemic, strong but not overheated. 
Inflation has eased notably over the past two years, but remains somewhat above our longer run goal of 2%. Total PCE prices rose 2.5% over the 12 months ending in June, excluding the volatile food and energy categories. Its core PCE prices rose 2.6%. Longer term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households and businesses and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. 
My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing and transportation. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. In support of these goals, the Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5.25% to 5.5% and to continue reducing our securities holdings. 
As the labor market has cooled and inflation has declined, the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals continue to move into better balance. Indeed, we are attentive to the risks to both sides of our dual mandate. We have stated that we do not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range for the federal funds rate until we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%. 
The second quarter's inflation readings have added to our confidence, and more good data would further strengthen that confidence. 
We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. We know that reducing policy restraint too soon or too much could result in a reversal of the progress we have seen on inflation. At the same time, reducing policy restraint too late or too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering any adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. 
As the economy evolves, monetary policy will adjust in order to best promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we can maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate as long as appropriate. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we are prepared to respond. 
Policy is well-positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy, maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping the longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Restoring price stability is essential to achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions. 
GINA SMILEY. Gina Smiley from the New York Times. 
Thanks for taking our questions. Markets pretty much entirely expect a rate cut in September at this time. I wonder if you think that's a reasonable expectation, and if so, why not just make the move today? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. 
Thank you. So, on September, let me say this. We have made no decisions about future meetings, and that includes the September meeting. The broad sense of the committee is that the economy is moving closer to the point at which it will be appropriate to reduce our policy rate. In that, we will be data-dependent, but not data-point-dependent. We will be data-dependent, but not data-point-dependent. So, it will not be a question of responding specifically to one or two data releases. The question will be whether the totality of the data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks are consistent with rising confidence on inflation and maintaining a solid labor market. If that test is met, a reduction in our policy rate could be on the table as soon as the next meeting in September. 
So, you asked, why not today? And I would just say, we have made no decisions about future meetings, but not data-dependent. If that test is met, a reduction in our policy rate could be on the table as soon as the next meeting in September. So, you asked, why not today? And I would just say, again, that the broad sense of the committee is that we're getting closer to the point at which it will be appropriate to reduce our policy rate, but that we're not quite at that point yet. 
Howard. 
So, just to follow up on that a bit, if inflation behaves as you expect between now and September, would you regard a cut or a reduction in your policy rate? And if so, what would you do? 
Powelll
So, I would think about it this way. I'll give an example of cases in which it would be appropriate to cut and maybe that it wouldn't be appropriate to cut. So, if we were to see, for example, inflation moving down quickly or more or less in line with expectations, growth remains, let's say, reasonably strong and the labor market remains, you know, consistent with its current condition, then I would think that a rate cut could be on the table at the September meeting. 
If inflation were to prove, you know, stickier and we were to see higher rates from inflation, disappointing ratings, we would weigh that along with the other things. You know, I think it's going to be not just any one thing. It's going to be the inflation data. It's going to be the employment data. It's going to be the balance of risks as we see it. It's going to be the totality of all of that that help us make this decision. 
Howard
And just to follow up on that, specifically, in what ways right now, given all you've seen over the last few months in particular on shelter, on services, et cetera, in what ways are you not confident right now that inflation is on the way back to 2 percent? 
Powell
I think it's just a question of seeing more good data. We have seen the last couple of readings have certainly added to confidence and we've seen progress across all three categories of core PCE inflation. That's goods, non-housing services, and housing services. So it's really just, you know, we had a quarter of poor inflation data at the beginning of the year, then we saw some more good inflation data. We had seven months at the end of last year. You know, we just want to see more and gain confidence. And as I said, we have, we did gain confidence and more good data would cause us to gain more confidence. 
COLBY. 
Thank you. Colby Smith with the Financial Times. The March SEP pointed to three cuts in 2024 with core inflation at 2.6 percent and the unemployment rate at 4 percent. Since we're now at that level in terms of inflation and already beyond what was projected for the labor market, I'm just wondering if that rate path is back to being the best guidepost for policy rather than let's say the shallower one laid out in the June SEP. 
Powell
You know, so I would just say really the path ahead is going to depend on the way the economy evolves. And I can't really give you any better forward guidance on it than that. We didn't, of course, do an SEP at this meeting. We will do another one at the September meeting. I would just say I can imagine a scenario in which there would be everywhere from zero cuts to several cuts depending on the way the economy evolves. And I wouldn't want to lay out a baseline path for you there today. I've said what I can say about September and about today though. 
Nick Timoroso, The Wall Street Journal. 
Chair Powell, you've said before that you wouldn't wait until inflation got to 2 percent to cut rates because of how inflation is lagged. Does that apply for the labor market too? If the labor market is back in equilibrium, why is restrictive policy and potentially very restrictive policy given the high real funds rate warranted right now? 
Powell
So this is the very reason that we're thinking about, you know, that we've said in our statement that we're going back to looking at both mandates and that we think the risks are coming back into balance. We think what the data broadly show in the labor market is an ongoing gradual normalization of labor market conditions. And that's what we want to see. You know, we've seen that over a period of a couple of years and a move really from over-the-counter to over-the-counter is what we want to see. We've seen that over a couple of years and a move really from overheated conditions to more normal conditions. We are watching the labor market conditions quite closely and that's what we're seeing. If we start to see something that looks to be more than that, then we're well positioned to respond. That's part of what we're thinking. 
Nickk
And when you talk about seeing something that's more than whatever softness or slowdown you expect, in the past you've said that stronger growth wouldn't override better news on inflation. I wonder how that cuts the other way. If you're seeing more softness in the labor market than what you would expect, does that change the calculus on what you're looking for out of the inflation numbers to recalibrate policy? 
Powell
So we have, growth isn't one of our three, we have two mandates as you know. The labor market, maximum employment is one and stable prices is another. So we weigh those two things equally under the law. When we were far away from our inflation mandate, we had to focus on that. Now we're back to a closer to even focus. So we'll be looking at labor market conditions and asking whether we're getting what we're seeing. And as I said, we're prepared to respond if we see it that it's not what we wanted to see, which was, you know, a gradual normalization of conditions if we see more than that. 
And it wouldn't be any one statistic, although of course, the unemployment rate is generally thought to be, you know, a single, a good single statistic, but we'd be looking at wages, we'd be looking at participation, we'd be looking at all the things, surveys, quits, hires, all of those things to determine the overall status of the labor market. But we're looking at it now. 
I would say again, I think you're back to conditions that are close to 2019 conditions and that was not an inflationary economy. Broadly similar labor markets then. I think inflation was actually, core inflation was actually running below 2%. So we don't think, I don't now think of the labor market in its current state as a likely source of significant inflationary pressures. So I would not like to see material further cooling in the labor market and that's part of what's behind our thinking. 
The other part of course is that we have made real progress on inflation and we've got growing confidence there that we are not quite there yet, but we're getting more confident that we're on a sustainable path down to 2%. So those two things are working together and we're factoring those both into our policy. 
Chris. Chris Ruegaber, Associated Press. 
You mentioned not wanting to see any further cooling in the job market. Why not, or would you consider preemptive cuts to prevent if you saw risks of an unexpected cooling, is that something you would cut ahead of time for? 
Powell
So I wouldn't say I wouldn't want to see any other cooling. It would be more of a material difference. If we'd be looking at this and if we see something that looks like a more significant downturn, that would be something that we would have the intention of responding to. So in terms of, I don't think of it that way. I think of it as we're actually in a good place here. We're balancing these two risks of go too soon and you undermine progress on inflation, wait too long or don't go fast enough, and you put at risk the recovery. And so we have to balance those two things. That's the nature of having two mandates. And I think this is how we balance them. 
It's a rough balance, but it does feel like, again, the labor market feels like it's in a place where it's just a process of ongoing normalization. And 4.1% unemployment is still historically low. And we'll just have to see what the data show us. 
Chris
And just to follow quickly, I wanted to see what you thought of the recent JOLTS report, which did show hiring, gross hiring has come down even below 2019 levels. Layoffs remain low. So it painted a picture of a very static labor market. Is that sustainable in your view or something that is worrying? Thank you. 
Powell
So I think all of the data points continue to point to kind of the direction we would want to see. So that was taken as, you know, there was a decline in job openings. That was good. Today's ECI reading was a little softer than expected. So that's a good reading. It shows that wage increases are still at a strong level, but that that level continues to come down to more sustainable levels over time. That's exactly the pattern that we want to be seeing. So I think the data we've been seeing in the labor market are broadly consistent with that normalization process. Again, we're closely monitoring to see whether it starts to show signs that it's more than that.
Steve Leesman, CNBC. 
Mr. Chairman, um, back in March, you talked about cutting rates as a process, and in June, you talked about the idea that, well, one rate cut wouldn't do anything. So, I wonder if you can, um, sort of follow up on Colby's question. Uh, talk about, are you weighing the economy right now in terms of its ability to withstand multiple rate cuts? Talk us through the process that you think, or is it just one rate cut, or are you in the process now thinking that rates need to be normalized here? Thank you. 
Powell
Yeah, I can't really say that, honestly. Uh, you know, we're, we, um, we've seen, you know, significant movement in the labor market, and, you know, we're very mindful of this question of, of, is it just normalization, or is it more, we think it's just more normalization, but we want to be in a position to, to support the labor market. At the same time, we're seeing progress on inflation. So, you know, we, we actually got to this, we raised rates, uh, a year ago at the July meeting, and if you look at the situation in the economy a year ago, um, unemployment, sorry, inflation was over, was over four percent. It was a completely different economy. Now, we've made a lot of progress in the labor market as, I think, you know, unemployment was in the threes, mid threes. 
So, it's a different economy, and I think it, it, it's time, it's coming to be time to adjust that so that we support this continued process. The, the thing we're trying to do is, you know that we have, um, we had, we've had this really significant decline in inflation, and unemployment has remained low, and this is a really unusual and historically, uh, historically unusual and such a welcome outcome for the people we serve. What we're thinking about all the time is how do we keep this going, and this is, this is part of that. 
We don't, we think we, we don't need to be a hundred percent focused on inflation because of the progress we've made. Uh, twelve-month headline at two and a half, core at 2.6, you know, it's way down from where it was. The job is not done on inflation, but nonetheless, we can afford to begin to dial back the restriction in our policy rate, and I think we're just as part of a process. In terms of, of what that looks like, I mean, I think most rate, you know, you would, you would think in a base case that policy rates would move down from here, but I, I don't want to try to give specific, uh, you know, forward guidance about when that might be because, uh, with the pace at which it might happen because I think that's really going to depend on the economy, and that's highly uncertain. 
Rachel. 
Hi, Chair Powell. Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post. Thanks for taking our questions. On inflation, do the past few months of good reports look like what we saw last year where you really had a lot of momentum with a few bumps in between? Would you characterize that kind of momentum as back on track at this point in the year? 
Actually what we're seeing now is a little better than what we saw last year. Last year, as we pointed out late in the year, a whole lot of the progress we saw last year was from goods prices, which were going down at an unsustainable rate, disinflating at an unsustainable rate. This is a broader disinflation. This has goods prices coming down, but it's also, we're also now seeing progress in the other two big categories, non-housing services and housing services. 
So, you know, so the thing is we've only, you've got one quarter of that. We had seven months of, of low inflation. You got one quarter of this. I would say the quality of this is, is higher, and it's good, but it's, but so far it's only a quarter. So I think, um, you know, we need to see more to know that we're, you know, to have more confidence that we're on, on a good path down to 2 percent. 
But as I mentioned, our, our confidence is growing because we've, we've been getting good data. And things like the ECI report, uh, and frankly the softening in the labor market, uh, conditions, uh, you know, give you more confidence that the economy's not overheating. It doesn't look like an overheating economy. And, um, it looks like an economy that's normalizing. 
And if we're to think about the first couple of months of the year, is there any sense now that they were these blips that could have actually allowed for earlier rate cuts as were some of the projections going into 2024? So the thing about, if, if that's, if what it is is seasonality, and it could just be, it's very, very hard to, you know, to, to do appropriate seasonal adjustments. If that's what it is, then that actually implies that, that other months were underreporting too low inflation. If you smoothed it out, it, it's a zero-sum game. And that's why we look at 12 months. We look at 12 months because that, that takes all that out, all those effects out. Twelve months now is 2.5 percent headline, 2.6 percent core. This is so much better than where we were even a year ago. It's a lot better. 
Now, we're, the job is not done. I want to stress that. And we're committed to getting job inflation sustainably under 2 percent. But we need to take note of that progress. And we need to weigh the risks to the labor market and the risks to our inflation target now more equally than we did a year ago. 
Michael McKee. 
Michael McKee from Bloomberg Radio and Television. I'd like to ask you about the balance of risks as the American people see it. At this point, is the risk greater to leave interest rates where they are, given the damage that higher interest rates do to the economy in slowing demand and raising prices? Or is it more important for the American people that you keep rates where they are to bring inflation down? 
Powell
I, I, you know, I think that we've been given an assignment by Congress, this is how we serve the American people, is by achieving maximum employment and price stability, right? And so, in our, you know, quasi-constitutional document, the Statement on Longer Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, we look at the two goals, and if one of them is farther away than the other, the two variables, inflation and employment, if one is farther away from its goal than the other, then you concentrate on the one that's farther away. And you take account of the time to reach the goal. So, for the, for the last couple of years, the best service we could do to the American people was to focus on inflation. 
But as inflation has come down, and I think the, the upside risks to inflation have decreased as the labor market has cooled off, now, and now, and labor market has softened, you know, probably the, the inflation, inflation's probably a little farther from its target than is the employment, but I think the downside risks to, to the, to, to the employment mandate are, are real now. So, we have to weigh all that, and if you think about what, where that takes us, is we have a restrictive policy rate. It's clearly restrictive. It's been the rate we've had in place for a full year, and it, and the time is coming, as other central banks around the world are, are facing the same question, the time is coming at which it will begin to be appropriate to dial back that level of restrictions, restrictions, so that we may address both mandates. 
Michael
Well, you have event risk, basically, with the jobs report on Friday, and another one before you meet again. Are, are you certain that you won't fall behind the curve and lead to unnecessary unemployment if you wait until September? 
Powell
Certainty is not a word that we have in our, in our business. So, you know, we get, we get a lot of data between now and September, and it isn't going to be one data read, or, or even two. It's going to be the totality of the data, all of the data, and not just it, and, and then how's that affecting the outlook, and how's it affecting the balance of risks? That's going to be the assessment that we do. Of course, we'll, we'll all look carefully at the employment report, but so much other data coming in, and so much happening between now and, and the September meeting, and we'll, you know, we'll make a judgment. 
Edward. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Edward Lawrence, Fox Business. I do want to dig deeper on what Michael and, and what Nick were asking. There's a, a shift in the statement to balance between the focus between inflation and jobs. Looking at the job sides, we've seen wage data show sort of an abrupt slowing. We've, we're hearing on earnings calls from companies like Intel abrupt layoffs. In the jobs report from the BLS, government jobs has been a leading creator. Could the government jobs as a sector hiring mask underlying weakness in the jobs report? 
Powelll
Well, you know, we'll look at everything. We've seen some, some tendency to have a narrowing base of job creation in some months going back, but then we've had some months where, where job creation was broader, and, and also the, you know, the, the headline number of jobs has come down. So, you know, we would, we, we, but you, you look at the whole thing, and, and I think you do look at private demand extra carefully, to your point about, about So we'll just be looking at, at all those things. 
Edward
So as a follow then, so could the Fed then be behind the curve? Because you said some of the reports last meeting, you said the reports could be noisy or overstated. Was there a discussion of, of what kind of discussion was there for a cut today, and could the Fed be behind the curve? 
Powell
Yeah, so, look, the, the, the objective is to balance the two risks, right? It's the risk of going too soon and the risk of going too late. We've been, you know, we, we, we had seven months of good inflation data at, at the end of last year. We said we wanted to see more. We said that we pointed out that too much of this was coming from goods, and sure enough, the first quarter wasn't, wasn't great inflation data. Now we've got another quarter, a quarter that is good, and, you know, we're balancing the risk of going too soon against the risk of going too late. That's what we're doing. There's no guarantee in this. It's a very difficult judgment call, but this is, this is how we're making it. 
So, but in terms of today, your question about today, we did have a, you know, we had, you know, a nice, a nice conversation about, about this issue today. The overall sense of the committee, as I mentioned, is that we're getting closer to the point at which it'll be appropriate to begin to, to dial back restriction, but we're not quite at that point yet. We want to see more good data. The decision was unanimous. All 19 participants supported it. 
And, but, you know, there was a real discussion back and forth of what the case would be for, for moving at this meeting. You know, a strong majority supported moving, not moving at this meeting. That was a strong sense of the committee, but it's a conversation that we had today, certainly. 
Courtney. 
Courtney Brown from Axios. 
Thank you for taking our questions. When the Fed was raising rates, there was a lot of conversation about long and variable lags. I wonder if that applies on the way down to, how are you and the committee thinking about that? 
Powell
Yes, it does. And I, and I think the lags have kind of showed up here in the last six months, by the way. You, you really do now see the restriction, whereas, I mean, even a few months ago, people were questioning how restrictive policy was. Look at the labor market now. You can see, and look at, look at inflation, sorry, rate sensitive, interest sensitive spending. You really do see now that policy is restrictive. I wouldn't say it's extremely restrictive, but it's certainly effectively restrictive. 
Yes, there, there, the lag should, should be, should be on the way down. It should take some time to get into, to get into the full economy, affect financial conditions, and that affects economic activity, hiring, and that kind of thing, and ultimately inflation. It doesn't, it's not instantaneous, although it's faster than it used to be because markets move now in anticipation of our moves. 
Courtney
So are you worried then that if monetary policy acts with long and variable lags, even when you're lowering interest rates, it might be too late for the Fed to help stave off any kind of slowdown in the labor market or broader economy? 
Powell
We have to worry about that. I mean, we, you're, just to make it clear, you know, it's, it's a very difficult, challenging judgment, and we don't want to go too soon. We don't, we don't want to go too late. And, but that's, this is how we've made that judgment. I feel good about where we are. We're certainly very well positioned to respond to weakness with the policy rate at 5.3 percent. We certainly have a lot of room to respond if we were to see weakness. 
That's not what we're seeing though. What we're seeing, look at the, look at the first half growth numbers. Look at PDFP at 2.6 percent for the first half. It's not signaling a weak economy. It's also not signaling an overheating economy. Labor market, admittedly, the, the unemployment rate has moved up seven-tenths, and we're seeing, you know, we're seeing a normalization there. But, you know, wage, wage increases are still at a high level. Unemployment is still at a low level. Layoffs are very low. Initial claims have moved up, but they're pretty stable, and, and they're historically not high at all. So, the, the total scope of the data suggests a normalizing labor market, and again, we are carefully watching to, to see that, that, that, that continues to be the case. 
Victoria. 
Hi, Victoria Guido with Politico. On the labor market, I was wondering, how worried are you all about unemployment rising to the point where it triggers the SOM rule, and would that potentially affect how quickly you cut rates? 
Powell
We, so, I would just say the, the question really is, is one of, are we worried about a sharper downturn in the labor market? So, and, and the answer is we're watching really carefully for that. We're, we're aware of that rule, which is really a, you know, a, I would call it a, a statistical, a statistical thing that has happened through history. A statistical regularity is what I'd call it. It's not like an economic rule where it's telling you something must happen. So, again, what do we see? What are our eyes telling us? We look at, we look at all the things we're seeing, and what it looks like is a normalizing labor market. Again, job creation at a pretty decent level, wages moving up at a, at a strong level, but coming down gradually. Job vacancies have come down, but they're still high by historical standards. So, again, I've, I've been through some of the data already, but what, what we think we're seeing is, is a normalizing labor market, and we're watching carefully to see if it's, if it turns out to be more, if it starts to show signs that it's more than that, then we're, we're well positioned to respond. 
Victoria
Is there reason to think that the labor market might behave differently this time than it has historically? 
Powell
I, I think, you know, history doesn't repeat itself. It, it rhymes. I think that statement is very true about the economy. You never assume it's going to be just the same. An example would be, is there a trend increase in the level of vacancies? There are many, many examples. So, it's never exactly the same. 
Also, let's remember that this pandemic era has been one in which so many, you know, apparent rules have been flouted, like the inverted yield curve for starters. So, many, many received with, pieces of received wisdom just haven't worked, and it's because the situation really is unusual or unique in that so much of this inflation came from the shutdown in the economy and the resulting supply problems in the face of, admittedly, very strong demand. So, the whole, the whole situation is, is not the same as many of the other prior inflation out, or downturns that we've seen, or business cycles that we've seen. So, we're having to learn, you know, we're having to, you know, to be very careful about the judgments that we'd make, I would say. So, we don't assume that, that these regularities will, will just repeat themselves automatically. 
Amara. 
Thank you, Chair Powell. Amara Mokwe with Bloomberg. There seems to be quite a difference between what the anecdotal data are telling us, such as the very recent downbeat pagebook and the hard data. Do you take those anecdotes seriously, that is, that the economy and labor market are cooling much more rapidly than what's shown in the data?
Powell
 So, I do take that seriously, and it, the pagebook is great. What's even greater is hearing the Reserve Bank presidents come in and talk about their conversations with, with businesses, and business leaders, and workers, and people in the non-profit sector in their districts. But it's, I'll tell you, it's a pretty, you know, the picture is, is not one of a slowing, or, you know, a really bad economy. It's one of their, their spots of weakness in their regions where growth is stronger than other regions. 
But overall, it's, you know, again, look, look at the aggregate data. Aggregate data is, you know, particularly PDFP, private, private domestic final purchases, is 2.6 percent, and that's a good indicator of private, of private demand. So, we listen to all of that, and it does, it does, I think it's important to listen to anecdotal data and not just look at the aggregate data. Especially, you know, it's very hard. GDP data can be volatile quarter to quarter. So, it's just hard to measure economic activity. There are a lot of, it's just difficult to do. So, I, I look at both. But I wouldn't say that the, that the, that the anecdotal data is uniformly downbeat. It's more mixed.
Jolene. 
Thank you. Jolene Kent with CBS News. Chair Powell, thanks for taking our questions today. You have consistently said that the Fed does not consider politics in making decisions. With a possible September rate cut on the table, it would be less than two months before the election, and former President Trump reportedly said that cutting rates so close to the election is something the central bank knows they shouldn't be doing. What's your response, and do you believe it's possible to really remain apolitical with a September rate cut? 
Powell
I absolutely do, and I think it's ... First of all, we haven't made any decisions. I would say it this way. Haven't made any decision about any future meeting. I don't know what the data will reveal or how that will affect the appropriate path of our policy. I really don't know. I do know how we will make that assessment. That's what I do know. 
So if you take a step back, the current situation, again, is inflation has come down much closer to our goal, and that's happened while unemployment has remained low. We're very tightly focused on using our tools to try to foster that state of affairs continuing. At each of our meetings and all of our decisions, our focus is strictly on that and really on nothing else, doing our part, whatever that part may be. We're using our best thinking. We're doing our best to understand the economy. 
We follow academics. We follow the many commentators who bless us with their commentary. But we don't change anything in our approach to address other factors like the political calendar. Congress has, we believe, ordered us to conduct our business in a nonpolitical way at all times, not just some of the time. I'll say this too. We never use our tools to support or oppose a political party, a politician, or any political outcome. 
The bottom line is if we do our very best to do our part and we stick to our part, that will benefit all Americans. If we get it right, the economy will be stronger. We'll have price stability. People will find jobs. Wages will rise in real terms. Everyone will benefit. So that's what we believe, and that's how we will always act. This is my fourth presidential election at the Fed. I can tell you this is how we think about it. This is what we do. So anything that we do before, during, or after the election will be based on the data, the outlook, and the balance of risks, and not on anything else. 
Jolene
Just a quick follow-up. Do your economic forecasts and models take into account the two very different economic plans of these two presidential candidates, Harris and Trump? And if so, how? 
Powell
We do not do that. We absolutely do not do that. We don't know who's going to win. We don't know what they're going to do. We don't act as though we know, and we just can't do that. Basically, we have our forecast. We can run simulations of different potential policies, but we would never try to make policy decisions based on the outcome of an election that hasn't happened yet. That would just be a line we would never cross. We're a non-political agency. We don't want to be involved in politics in any way, so we wouldn't do that. 
Nicholas. 
Thank you, Chair Powell. Nicholas Jasinski from Barron's Magazine. There hasn't been a dissenting vote on an interest rate decision in some time. If the data do evolve, as you expect, if you do have more confidence by the September meeting, do you get the sense that there will be a unanimous vote on an interest rate move in September? 
Powelll
Basically, are there meaningful differences in committee members' assessments of how much more confidence is needed? There are always meaningful differences. There are. We talk a lot before, during, and after the meeting. We do have a very robust discussion of these things. You're right that in most cases people, if they feel heard and they feel that their position has been given serious consideration, for most people, most of the time, that's going to be enough. There are dissents. That's fine. No one has a veto. No single person has a veto, so it just is a question of who we'll vote for and against. We've had dissents. 
We haven't had so many during the pandemic era, and it just may be that we felt more united because we felt under a lot of pressure to get things right. But before the pandemic, we had plenty of dissents. Dissents happen. It's part of the process. There's nothing wrong with dissents, and if it happens, it happens. 
Jean.
 Hello. Jean Young with MNI Market News. Is a 50 basis point cut as a first cut at all likely or even on the table? 
Powell
I don't want to say, and it would be really specific about what we're going to do, but that's not something we're thinking about right now.  Of course, I haven't made any decisions at all as of today. 
Jennifer
Thank you, Chair Bell. Jennifer Schonberger with Yahoo Finance. Not to get into the minutes, but you said there was a real discussion today for moving at this meeting. I'm curious if you could provide some more color on the nature of the discussion today at the meeting about a possible rate cut as early as September. 
Powell
The way the meeting is set up, the first day there's a discussion of financial stability because it's every other meeting we have that, and then we have an opportunity to comment on that. Then we have an economic go-around, and then this morning we have the monetary policy go-around. I think in people's economic go-around and in their monetary policy go-around, people express their views about this. There's a range of views. People, as you will know from the speeches that they give, people have different ways of thinking about the economy. In the minutes, we'll lay this out in a much better way than I can do off the cuff, but there's a range of perspectives. I do think that we're a consensus-driven organization. 
This was a unanimous decision, and at the end, everyone supported the outcome, not just the voters, but everyone. I would also say some people examined the possibility, the case for moving at this meeting, but overwhelmingly, the sense of the committee was not at this meeting but as soon as the next meeting, depending on how the data come in. 
Jennifer
But there is a growing sense of confidence that you could move at the next meeting, assuming inflation comes? 
Powell
Yes. Assuming that the totality of the data supports such an outcome, no question. That is the case. As I mentioned, we think that the time is approaching, and if we do get the data that we hope we get, then a reduction in our policy rate could be on the table at the September meeting. 
Nancy. 
Hi, Chair Powell. Nancy Marshall-Genzer with Marketplace. Former New York President Bill Dudley wrote an op-ed in Bloomberg earlier this month, which you probably saw, in which he said, quote, it might already be too late to fend off a recession by cutting rates. Doddling now unnecessarily increases the risk. Is he wrong? 
Powell
This is the judgment that we have to make, and we're well aware of the judgment. As I've said, we have to weigh the risk of going too soon against the risk of going too late. If we go too soon, we can, you know, we had a lot of advice, you know, to go ahead and cut after the seven good months of last year. We didn't. We said we needed to see more. Then we saw some higher inflation. We've seen one quarter of good inflation, and we've seen the labor market move quite a bit. And as I mentioned, I don't think it needs to, you know, cool off any more for us to get the inflation results that are related to the labor market. Not all inflation is, of course. So I think it's a difficult judgment to make, and what you see as the judgment of the committee is that that time is drawing near. That time could be in September if, you know, if the data support that. 
Nancy
And have the chances of a hard landing increased? 
Powell
So I don't know whether they've increased. I think they're low. I think this is you don't see any reason to think that this economy is either overheating or sharply weakening. That's just not in the data right now. What's in the data right now is an economy that's growing at a solid pace, a labor market that has cooled off, but nonetheless, inflation sorry, unemployment is low. You know, the data overall show a strong labor market. And, you know, so that's really what you see. It's not it's neither an overheating economy, nor is it a sharply weakening economy. It's kind of what you would want to see. 
But of course, it's the job is never done. You know, we're watching to see, you know, which way the economy heads. And I think if we are to respond to weakness, we're certainly, you know, well equipped to do that. But that's not what we're seeing. What we're seeing is strong economic activity and, you know, a good labor market and inflation coming down. 
Greg. 
Thank you so much. In the minutes of the June meeting that came out a few weeks ago, there was a discussion about communications and some Fed officials said maybe the Fed wasn't as clear enough about its reaction function. And when I talked to the commentators who bless you with their comments, they say that they really don't have a sense of what is going to judge, maybe not the first cut, but the pace of the cuts going forward. They don't have a good sense of that. Is there anything you can say, like, how will we judge that? 
Powell
Yeah, I mean, I think the reality is that forecasters, and this isn't just the Fed by any means, forecasters have been continually surprised by, for example, the strength of the economy last year. So I think we have to be pretty humble about giving forward guidance about this, that, and the other thing. We need to be pretty careful about that. 
And, you know, when you're saying you're going to be data-driven, of course it's always what the data, how they affect the outlook and the balance of risks, but nobody has great vision deep into the future. 
In terms of a reaction function, that's a long-time discussion that people have had forever. I think people have understood for a long time, actually, that we were very focused on bringing down inflation. Nobody was really confused about that. The data have, you know, again, you've seen significant improvement in inflation just for the last quarter. Markets move around on that, on the data, really, not so much. It's not really what we're going to do. It's more just that the data keep coming in, and markets are very, very responsive to that data right now. 
Jack, for the last question.
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to change gears on you just a little bit from all the Ray talk and whatnot. With Fed now being in the books for a little over a year, there hasn't been a whole lot of talk about central bank digital currency, and wondering if you could give us an update on where things are with that. Is that considered a dead issue now? Is it still something that's being discussed within the committee, and what's happening with that? 
Powell
It's not something that comes up at all in the FOMC. More broadly, digital finances is an area that has really significant implications for payments generally, instant payments. It's something that's going to really change the way it's going to make more efficient and hopefully safer, and all those things, the way payments are made around the world. We have people who are researching that and trying to keep up to speed, because we play an important role in the payments sector, both as a convener and as an operator, too. In terms of a CBDC, there's really nothing new going on. There's not much going on at all. We don't have the authority to issue a retail CBDC that's available to the public. We're not seeking that authority. What we're doing is keeping up with developments there. Pretty much every major central bank in the world is at least doing that. Some of them are actually seriously looking at implementing a CBDC. We're really not. We're really just evaluating the story and what's happening out there. I think it's work that we need to be doing, which could be very beneficial down the road, but on a CBDC, we don't have any plan to. We would need to go to Congress, and we have no plan to do that. No one here has decided that we think it's a good idea yet. Thank you.
###
こんにちは、私の同僚と私は、米国民の利益のために最大限の雇用と安定した物価という2つの職務目標を達成することに、引き続き全力を注いでいます。過去2年間、わが国の経済はこの2つの目標に向けて大きく前進してきた。労働市場のバランスは改善し、失業率は低水準を維持している。インフレ率はピーク時の7%から2.5%へと大幅に緩和した。私たちは、すべての人に恩恵をもたらす力強い経済を支えるため、インフレ率を目標である2%に戻すことに強くコミットしている。
本日、FOMCは政策金利の据え置きと、保有有価証券の削減の継続を決定した。我々は、需要を供給と一致させ、インフレ圧力を低下させるため、金融政策の制限的スタンスを維持している。金融政策については、経済情勢を簡単に振り返った後、改めてご説明します。
最近の指標は、経済活動が堅調なペースで拡大を続けていることを示唆している。上半期のGDP成長率は昨年の3.1％から2.1％に減速した。在庫投資、政府支出、純輸出を除いた民間国内最終購買（PDFP）は、通常、基礎需要の明確なシグナルを送るが、上半期の成長率は2.6％だった。個人消費の伸びは昨年の堅調なペースから鈍化したが、依然堅調である。設備投資と無形資産投資は、昨年の低調なペースから回復した。住宅分野では、第1四半期の力強い上昇の後、第2四半期も依然として投資が続いている。供給状況の改善が、この1年の底堅い需要と米国経済の好調を支えてきた。
労働市場では、需給バランスが改善した。第2四半期の雇用者数は月平均17万7,000人増加し、堅調なペースであったが、第1四半期を下回った。失業率は上昇したが、依然4.1%と低い水準にある。ここ数年の力強い雇用創出は、25歳から54歳までの労働参加率の上昇と移民の増加ペースを反映した労働者供給の増加を伴っている。名目賃金の伸びはこの1年で鈍化し、雇用と労働者の格差は縮小した。全体として、広範な経済・金融指標は、労働市場の状況がパンデミック前夜とほぼ同じ水準に戻ったことを示唆している。
インフレ率は過去2年間で顕著に緩和したが、長期目標である2%をやや上回ったままである。6月までの12ヵ月間のPCE総合物価は、変動の激しい食品とエネルギーのカテゴリーを除いて2.5%上昇した。コアPCE価格は2.6%上昇した。長期的なインフレ期待は、家計、企業、予測担当者を対象とした広範な調査や金融市場の指標に反映されているように、依然として十分に固定されているようだ。
私の同僚と私は、高インフレが購買力を低下させ、特に食料、住宅、交通などの必需品のコスト上昇に対応できない人々にとって大きな苦難をもたらすことを痛感している。私たちの金融政策行動は、米国民のために最大限の雇用と安定した物価を促進するという、私たちの二重の使命に導かれている。これらの目標を支えるため、委員会は本日の会合で、フェデラルファンド金利の目標レンジを5.25%～5.5%に維持し、保有有価証券の削減を継続することを決定した。
労働市場が冷え込み、インフレ率が低下するなか、雇用とインフレの目標達成に向けたリスクは、より良いバランスへと移行し続けている。実際、私たちは、私たちの二重の使命の双方に対するリスクに注意を払っている。私たちは、インフレ率が持続的に2%に向かっているという確信が深まるまで、フェデラルファンド金利の目標レンジを引き下げることは適切ではないと考えている。
第2四半期のインフレ指標は私たちの確信に拍車をかけており、さらに良好なデータが出れば、その確信はさらに強まるだろう。
我々は引き続き、会合ごとに意思決定を行っていく。私たちは、金融政策の抑制を早急に、あるいは過度に縮小することは、インフレに関するこれまでの進展を覆す結果になりかねないことを承知している。同時に、政策抑制の縮小が遅すぎたり少なすぎたりすれば、経済活動や雇用を不当に弱めかねない。フェデラルファンド金利の目標レンジの調整を検討する際、委員会は、入ってくるデータ、進展する見通し、およびリスクのバランスを注意深く評価する。
経済が発展するにつれて、金融政策は最大限の雇用と物価安定の目標を最良に促進するために調整される。経済が堅調に推移し、インフレが持続すれば、適切な限り、現在のフェデラルファンド金利の目標レンジを維持することができる。労働市場が予想外に弱まったり、インフレ率が予想以上に急速に低下したりした場合は、対応する用意がある。
FRBの政策は、FRBの二重の使命の双方を追求する上で直面するリスクと不確実性に対処する態勢が整っている。FRBには金融政策として、最大限の雇用と安定した物価という2つの目標が課せられている。FRBは引き続き、インフレ率を目標である2%まで低下させ、長期的なインフレ期待を適切に維持することに全力を尽くしています。物価安定の回復は、最大限の雇用と長期的な物価安定の達成に不可欠である。これらの目標を達成するための我々の成功は、すべての米国人にとって重要である。私たちは、私たちの行動が全米の地域社会やビジネスに影響を与えることを理解しています。私たちの行動はすべて、公的使命に奉仕するものです。私たちFRBは、最大限の雇用と物価安定の目標を達成するために全力を尽くします。ありがとうございました。ご質問をお待ちしています。
ジーナ・スマイリー ニューヨーク・タイムズのジーナ・スマイリーです。
質問にお答えいただきありがとうございます。現時点では、市場は9月の利下げを予想しています。それが妥当な予想だとお考えですか？もしそうなら、なぜ今日利下げに踏み切らないのでしょうか？
パウエル議長 
ありがとうございます。では、9月について申し上げます。今後の会合については、9月の会合も含めて何も決定していません。委員会の大まかな感覚では、経済は政策金利を引き下げるのに適切な時点に近づいている。その際、我々はデータに依存するが、データ・ポイントには依存しない。我々はデータに依存するが、データ・ポイントには依存しない。ですから、1つや2つのデータ発表に特別に反応するという問題ではありません。問題は、データの全体像、進展する見通し、リスクのバランスが、インフレに対する信認の高まりと堅調な労働市場の維持と一致しているかどうかである。このテストが満たされれば、早ければ9月の次回会合で政策金利の引き下げが検討されることになる。
では、なぜ今日ではないのか？今後の会合については決定していないが、データに左右されるものではない、と申し上げたい。もしこのテストが満たされれば、政策金利の引き下げは早ければ次回9月の会合でも可能です。では、なぜ今日ではないのか？繰り返しになりますが、委員会の大まかな見解は、政策金利の引き下げが適切となる時点に近づきつつあるが、まだその時点には至っていないということです。
ハワード 
では、少し補足しておきますが、現在から9月までの間にインフレ率が予想通りに推移した場合、政策金利の引き下げまたは引き下げを検討しますか？もしそうなら、どうしますか？
パウエル
そこで、私ならこう考える。利下げが適切な場合とそうでない場合の例を挙げます。例えば、インフレ率が急速に低下するか、予想とほぼ一致し、成長率がそれなりに堅調で、労働市場が現状維持であれば、9月の金融政策決定会合で利下げを行うこともあり得ると思います。
仮にインフレがさらに強まり、インフレ率の上昇や期待外れの格付けが示されるようなことがあれば、私たちはそれを他の材料と比較検討するでしょう。どのようなことが起こるかわからない。インフレ・データでしょう。雇用統計でしょう。私たちが見ているリスクのバランス。これらすべてを総合的に判断することになる。
ハワード
具体的には、ここ数ヶ月の間、特にシェルターやサービス業などにおいて、インフレ率が2％に戻りつつあることをどのようにお考えですか？
パウエル
もっと良いデータが出るかどうかだと思います。ここ数回、コアPCEインフレの3つのカテゴリーすべてで進展が見られた。商品、非住宅サービス、住宅サービスです。つまり、年初の4半期は芳しくないインフレデータが続いたが、その後は良好なインフレデータが続いたということだ。昨年末は7ヶ月間続いた。私たちはもっと多くのインフレデータを見て、自信をつけたいのです。今申し上げたように、私たちは自信を深めています。
コービー. 
ありがとうございました。フィナンシャル・タイムズのコルビー・スミスです。3月のSEPでは、コアインフレ率が2.6％、失業率が4％で、2024年に3回の利下げが行われるとしていました。現在、インフレ率はその水準にあり、労働市場の予測値もすでに超えているため、6月のSEPで示されたような浅い金利ではなく、この金利パスが政策の最良の道しるべに戻っているのではないかと思うのですが。
パウエル
ですから、この先の道筋は経済がどのように進展するかによって決まるとしか言いようがありません。これ以上の見通しはありません。もちろん、今回の会合ではSEPは実施しませんでした。9月の会合で改めて行う予定です。ただ、経済の動向次第では、削減幅がゼロから数回になるシナリオもあり得ます。今日、皆さんに基本的な道筋を示したいとは思いません。しかし、9月について、そして今日について言えることは述べた。
ニック・ティモロソ ウォール・ストリート・ジャーナル紙 
パウエル議長は以前、インフレ率が2％になるまで利下げを待つつもりはないとおっしゃっていました。それは労働市場にも当てはまりますか？労働市場が均衡状態に戻っているのであれば、なぜ今制限的な政策が必要なのでしょうか。
パウエル
これこそが、私たちが考えている理由なのです。私たちは声明で、両方のマンデートを検討することに戻り、リスクは均衡を取り戻しつつあると思うと述べました。私たちは、労働市場のデータが広く示しているのは、労働市場の状況が徐々に正常化しつつあるということだと考えています。それが私たちの望むところです。私たちは、数年にわたり、店頭から店頭への移行を目の当たりにしてきました。ここ数年、過熱状態からより正常な状態への移行が見られる。私たちは労働市場の状況を注意深く見ています。もし、それ以上のものが見え始めたら、私たちはそれに対応することができます。それが私たちが考えていることの一部です。
ニック
そして、あなたが予想する軟調や減速を超えるものが見えてきたとおっしゃるとき、過去には、成長率の上昇はインフレ率の改善には勝てないとおっしゃっていました。その逆はどうなのでしょう？もし労働市場が予想以上に軟調だとしたら、インフレ率から何を見出して政策を調整するのか、その計算は変わるのでしょうか？
パウエル
成長率は3つのうちの1つではありません。一つは労働市場、最大限の雇用、もう一つは物価の安定です。ですから、私たちはこの2つのことを法の下で同等に考えています。インフレの義務から遠ざかっていたときは、インフレに焦点を当てなければなりませんでした。今は、より均等に近い焦点に戻っています。そのため、労働市場の状況を見て、私たちが見ているものを得ているかどうかを問うことになるでしょう。そして、申し上げたように、私たちが望んでいたような状況、つまり、状況の緩やかな正常化が見られないと判断した場合は、それ以上に対応する用意があります。
もちろん、失業率というのは一般的に、単一の、単一の良い統計であると考えられていますが、私たちは賃金、労働参加、調査、退職、雇用など、労働市場の全体的な状況を判断するためにあらゆるものを見ています。しかし、私たちは今それを見ている。
もう一度言いますが、2019年に近い状況に戻っており、インフレ経済ではなかったと思います。当時の労働市場はほぼ同じでした。インフレ率は実際、コアインフレ率は2％を下回っていたと思います。ですから、現在の労働市場が大幅なインフレ圧力の要因になるとは考えていません。ですから、労働市場がこれ以上冷え込むことは望ましくないと考えています。
もうひとつは、もちろん、私たちがインフレに関して実質的な前進を遂げ、まだ2％には達していないものの、持続可能な2％への道を歩んでいるという確信を深めていることです。ですから、この2つのことが連動しており、私たちはこの2つを政策に織り込んでいるのです。
クリス クリス・ルーガバー、AP通信。
あなたは、雇用市場がこれ以上冷え込むことを望まないとおっしゃいました。もし予期せぬ冷え込みのリスクがあると見た場合、それを防ぐために先手を打って削減することを検討するのでしょうか？
パウエル
だから、これ以上の冷え込みは望まない。どちらかというと、重要な違いだろう。もし、この状況を見ていて、より大幅な景気後退のようなものがあれば、それに対応するつもりだ。ですから、私はそのように考えていません。私たちは今、良い状態にあると思います。早すぎるとインフレの進展を損ない、遅すぎると景気回復が危うくなる。この2つのバランスを取る必要があるのです。これが2つの任務を持つことの本質です。そして、これが私たちがバランスを取る方法だと思います。
大まかなバランスですが、労働市場は正常化の過程にあるように感じます。失業率4.1%は依然として歴史的に低い。データが何を示すか、見守る必要があります。
クリス
そして、最近のJOLTSレポートについてどう思われますか？レイオフは依然として少ない。つまり、労働市場が非常に停滞していることを示しています。これは持続可能なことなのでしょうか、それとも心配なことなのでしょうか？ありがとうございます。
パウエル
すべてのデータが、私たちが見たいと思う方向を指し続けていると思います。つまり、求人数が減少しているということです。それは良かった。今日のECIは予想より少し軟調でした。これは良い結果です。これは、賃金の上昇が依然として力強い水準にあることを示していますが、その水準は時間の経過とともにより持続可能な水準まで下がり続けています。これこそ私たちが望むパターンです。ですから、労働市場で見られるデータは、この正常化のプロセスとほぼ一致していると思います。しかし、それ以上の兆しが見え始めるかどうか、注意深く見守っていきたい。
スティーブ・リースマン CNBC 
議長、3月の時点では、利下げはプロセスだとおっしゃっていましたが、6月の時点では、利下げは1回だけでは意味がないとおっしゃっていましたね。そこで、コルビーの質問の続きをお願いします。複数回の利下げに耐えられるかどうかという点で、今の経済を評価していますか？利下げは1回だけなのか、それとも金利を正常化する必要があると考えているのか、そのプロセスを教えてください。ありがとうございます。
パウエル
正直なところ、何とも言えない。私たちは、労働市場に大きな動きがあるのを目の当たりにしていますし、正常化だけなのか、それとももっと正常化するのか、この問題を非常に意識しています。同時に、インフレについても進展が見られます。1 年前の 7 月会合で利上げを行いましたが、1 年前の経済状況を見ると、失業率は4％を超えていました。全く異なる経済状況だった。今、私たちは労働市場において多くの進歩を遂げ、失業率は3％台、あるいは3％台半ばでした。
ですから、経済が変わったのです。この継続的なプロセスをサポートするために、そろそろ調整する時期に来ていると思います。私たちがやろうとしているのは、インフレ率が大幅に低下し、失業率が低水準で推移していることです。これは本当に異例なことで、歴史的に見ても異例なことで、私たちがサービスを提供する人々にとっては喜ばしい結果です。私たちが常に考えているのは、どうすればこの状態を維持できるかということです。
インフレ率に100％こだわる必要はないと考えています。12ヶ月のヘッドラインは2.5、コアは2.6と、以前よりかなり下がっています。しかし、それにもかかわらず、私たちは政策金利の制限を緩め始める余裕があります。というのも、政策金利の引き下げがどのようなペースになるかは、本当に経済状況次第で、不確実性が高いからです。
レイチェル 
こんにちは、パウエル議長。ワシントン・ポスト紙のレイチェル・シーゲルです。質問にお答えいただきありがとうございます。インフレ率について、ここ数ヶ月の良好な報告は、昨年のような勢いがあり、その間にいくつかの波があるようなものでしょうか？このような勢いは、今年の現時点では軌道に戻ったと言えるのでしょうか？
実際のところ、現在の状況は昨年よりも少し良くなっている。昨年は、年末に指摘したように、持続不可能な速度で下落し、持続不可能な速度でディスインフレが進行していた。これはより広範なディスインフレである。商品価格も下がっていますが、他の2つの大きなカテゴリー、非住宅サービスと住宅サービスにも進展が見られます。
つまり、まだ4分の1しか終わっていないということです。低インフレが7ヶ月続きました。その4分の1がこれです。しかし、まだ4分の1に過ぎません。しかし、まだ4分の1しか達成していません。ですから、2％への道筋が順調に進んでいることを確信するには、もう少し様子を見る必要があると思います。
しかし、先ほど申し上げたように、私たちの自信は高まっています。ECI報告のようなものや、率直に言って労働市場の軟化は、経済が過熱していないという確信を与えてくれます。景気が過熱しているようには見えない。経済は正常化しているように見える。
今年の最初の2、3ヶ月について考えるなら、2024年に向けてのいくつかの予測のように、早期の利下げを可能にするようなブリップがあったのだろうか？もし、それが季節性だとしたら、そしてそれは単なる季節性かもしれないが、適切な季節調整を行うのは非常に難しい。もしそうだとすれば、他の月のインフレ率が低すぎるということになる。平滑化すればゼロサムゲームです。だから私たちは12ヶ月で計算するのです。12ヶ月で見るのは、そのような影響をすべて排除するためです。現在の12ヵ月は、ヘッドラインが2.5％、コアが2.6％です。これは1年前の水準よりもはるかに良い。かなり良くなっている。
まだ仕事は終わっていない。それを強調したい。私たちは、雇用インフレ率を持続的に2％以下にすることを約束します。しかし、その進展に留意する必要があります。そして、労働市場へのリスクとインフレ目標へのリスクを、1年前よりも等しく考慮する必要があります。
マイケル・マッキー 
ブルームバーグ・ラジオ＆テレビのマイケル・マッキーです。アメリカ国民が考えるリスクのバランスについてお聞きしたいと思います。現時点では、金利の上昇が需要を鈍らせ物価を上昇させるという経済へのダメージを考えると、金利を現状のままにしておくリスクの方が大きいのでしょうか？それとも、インフレを抑えるために金利を現状維持することの方がアメリカ国民にとって重要なのでしょうか？
パウエル
私たちは議会から、最大限の雇用と物価の安定を達成することで、アメリカ国民に奉仕するという使命を与えられていると思います。ですから、私たちの準憲法的な文書である「長期目標と金融政策戦略に関する声明」では、2つの目標に注目し、インフレと雇用という2つの変数のうち、一方が他方よりも目標から遠ざかっている場合は、遠ざかっている方に集中することにしています。そして、ゴールに到達するまでの時間を考慮する。だから、ここ数年、私たちがアメリカ国民にできる最善のサービスは、インフレ率に集中することだった。
しかし、インフレ率が低下し、労働市場が冷え込むにつれてインフレ率の上昇リスクは減少していると思います。ですから、私たちはこれらすべてを秤にかけなければなりません。そして、その結果、私たちは制限的な政策金利を設定しています。それは明らかに制限的です。世界中の中央銀行が同じ問いに直面しているように、私たちが両方の義務に対処できるように、制限的な政策金利を引き下げることが適切となる時期が近づいているのです。
マイケル
さて、基本的には金曜日に雇用統計があり、また次の会合までにもうひとつイベントリスクがあります。9月まで待てば、出遅れたり、不必要な失業を招いたりすることはないのでしょうか？
パウエル
確実性という言葉は、私たちの仕事にはありません。ですから、今から9月までの間に多くのデータを得ることになりますが、それは1つのデータでも2つのデータでもありません。そして、それが見通しにどう影響するのか、リスクバランスにどう影響するのか。それが我々の行う評価となる。もちろん、雇用統計は注意深く見ますが、それ以外にも多くのデータが入ってきますし、これから9月の会合までの間にも多くのことが起こります。
エドワード 
ありがとうございました エドワード・ローレンスです。マイケルとニックの質問について、さらに掘り下げてみたいと思います。今回の声明では、インフレと雇用のバランスを取るようにシフトしています。雇用の面では、賃金データが急減速しています。インテルのような企業の決算発表では、突然のレイオフが発表されました。BLSが発表した雇用統計では、政府雇用が主要な雇用創出要因となっている。政府部門の雇用が雇用統計の根底にある弱さを覆い隠しているのでしょうか？
パウエル
まあ、すべてを見てみよう。雇用創出の基盤が縮小している月もあれば、雇用創出の幅が拡大している月もある、また、雇用者数のヘッドラインも減少している月もある。 
 
 

 
エドワード
では、FRBが遅れをとっている可能性はあるのでしょうか？というのも、あなたは前回の会合で、いくつかの報告書はノイズが多かったり、誇張されている可能性があるとおっしゃいました。今日の利下げについてどのような議論があり、FRBが出遅れる可能性はあったのでしょうか？
パウエル
ええ、ですから、目的は2つのリスクのバランスを取ることです。早すぎるリスクと遅すぎるリスクだ。我々は昨年末、7ヶ月間良好なインフレデータが続いた。私たちはもっと見たいと言った。そして案の定、第1四半期は素晴らしいインフレデータではなかった。そして、我々は早すぎるリスクと遅すぎるリスクのバランスをとっている。それが私たちのやっていることです。これには保証はない。非常に難しい判断だが、これが我々のやり方だ。
しかし、今日の質問に関しては、私たちは今日、この問題について素晴らしい会話をしました。委員会の全体的な感覚としては、申し上げたように、制限を緩和し始めることが適切となる時点に近づきつつあるが、まだその時点には至っていない。しかし、まだその段階には至っていない。決定は全会一致だった。参加者19人全員が賛成した。
そして、しかし、この会議では、どのようなケースが賛成なのか、反対なのか、実際に議論が交わされた。その結果、賛成が圧倒的多数を占めた。それは委員会の強い意識でしたが、今日、私たちが交わした会話でもあります。
コートニー 
アクシオスのコートニー・ブラウンです。
質問にお答えいただきありがとうございます。FRBが利上げに踏み切ったとき、ロングラグと変動ラグについて多くの議論がありました。それが利下げにも当てはまるのかどうか、あなたと委員会はどう考えているのでしょうか？
パウエル
そうですね。ところで、この6ヵ月間でラグが顕在化したと思います。数ヶ月前までは、政策がいかに制限的であるかを疑問視する声があったのですが。労働市場を見てください。インフレ率や金利に敏感な消費を見てください。政策が制限的であることがよくわかる。極端に制限的とは言いませんが、効果的に制限的であることは確かです。
そうです、そうです、ラグがあるはずなんです、あるはずなんです、あるはずなんです。経済全体に影響を及ぼし、金融情勢に影響を及ぼし、それが経済活動や雇用に影響を及ぼし、最終的にはインフレに影響を及ぼす。しかし、私たちの動きを見越して市場が動くようになったため、以前よりは早くなっています。
コートニー
では、金融政策が金利を引き下げるときでさえも、長くて変動するラグをもって行動するのであれば、FRBが労働市場やより広範な経済の減速を食い止めるのを助けるには遅すぎるのではないかという心配はないのでしょうか？
パウエル
我々はそれを心配しなければならない。つまり、はっきりさせておきたいのですが、FRBの判断は非常に難しく、難しいものです。遅すぎてもいけない。そして、しかし、これが我々が下した判断だ。現在地についてはいい感じだ。政策金利が5.3％であるため、弱気に対応する態勢は非常に整っています。弱気になったとしても対応できる余地は十分にある。
しかし、今の状況はそうではない。私たちが見ているのは、上半期の成長率です。上半期のPDFPは2.6％です。これは経済の低迷を示すものではありません。景気の過熱を示すものでもない。労働市場は、確かに失業率が10分の7に上昇し、正常化が見られる。しかし、賃金の上昇はまだ高い水準にある。失業率は依然として低い水準にある。レイオフも非常に少ない。新規失業保険申請件数は増加しましたが、かなり安定していますし、歴史的に見ても決して高くはありません。ですから、データの総合的な範囲は、労働市場が正常化していることを示唆しています。
ビクトリア 
ポリティコのヴィクトリア・グイドです。労働市場についてですが、SOMルールが発動されるほど失業率が上昇することを皆さんはどの程度心配していますか？
パウエル
労働市場がさらに悪化することを懸念しているかどうかということです。ですから、その答えは、私たちはそれを注意深く見守っているということです。この法則は、歴史を通じて起こってきた統計的なものです。統計的な規則性とでも言いましょうか。経済的な法則のように、何かが必ず起こるというものではない。では、もう一度、私たちは何を見ているのでしょうか？私たちの目は何を語っているのだろうか？私たちが見ているすべてのものを見てみると、労働市場が正常化しているように見える。繰り返しますが、雇用創出はかなり適切な水準にあり、賃金は力強い水準で上昇していますが、徐々に下降しています。求人倍率は下がっていますが、歴史的な水準から見ればまだ高い水準です。しかし、私たちが見ているのは、労働市場が正常化しつつあるということです。もし労働市場が正常化し、それ以上の兆しが見え始めたら、私たちはそれに対応できるよう、注意深く見守っています。
ビクトリア
今回、労働市場がこれまでとは違った動きをする可能性はありますか？
パウエル
歴史は繰り返さない。韻を踏むものだ。この言葉は、経済に関して非常に正しいと思います。同じことが繰り返されるとは決して思わない。例えば、空室率が上昇傾向にあるのでしょうか？多くの例があります。だから、まったく同じということはない。
また、このパンデミックの時代には、イールドカーブの逆行など、多くの見かけ上のルールが反故にされてきたことも忘れてはならない。このインフレの多くは、経済の停止と、その結果生じた供給問題から生じたもので、確かに需要は非常に強い。つまり、この状況全体が、過去に起きた多くのインフレや景気後退、景気循環とは異なるのだ。ですから、私たちは判断に慎重にならざるを得ません。ですから、このような規則性が自動的に繰り返されるとは考えていません。
アマラ 
パウエル議長、ありがとうございました。ブルームバーグのアマラ・モクウェです。最近の下降気味なページブックのような逸話的データと、実際のデータとの間にはかなりの違いがあるようです。つまり、経済と労働市場はデータに示されているよりもはるかに急速に冷え込んでいるということです。
パウエル
 私はそれを真剣に受け止めている。さらに素晴らしいのは、準備銀行の頭取たちがやってきて、それぞれの地区の企業やビジネスリーダー、労働者、非営利セクターの人々との対話について語るのを聞くことだ。しかし、私が言うのもなんですが、それはかなり、つまり、その絵は、景気が減速しているというものでも、本当に悪いというものでもないのです。成長率が他の地域より強い地域があるのは、彼らの弱点のひとつだ。
しかし、全体としては、もう一度、総合データを見てください。特にPDFP（民間国内最終購買率）は2.6％で、これは民間需要の良い指標です。ですから、私たちはそうしたデータすべてに耳を傾けています。特に、非常に難しいことです。GDPデータは四半期ごとに変動する可能性があります。経済活動を測定するのは難しい。多くの困難があります。ですから、私は両方を見ています。しかし、私は、逸話的データが一様に落ち込んでいるとは言いません。もっと複雑なんだ。
ジョリーン 
ありがとうございました。CBSニュースのジョリーン・ケントです。パウエル議長、本日は質問にお答えいただきありがとうございます。パウエル議長は一貫して、FRBは政治を考慮せずに決定を下すとおっしゃっています。9月利下げの可能性が浮上した場合、選挙まで2カ月を切ります。トランプ前大統領は、選挙間近の利下げは中央銀行がやるべきではないとわかっていることだと述べたと伝えられています。また、9月の利下げで本当に非政治的であり続けることが可能だと思いますか？
パウエル
私は絶対にそう思います。まず第一に、私たちは何も決定していません。こう言いたい。今後の会合については何も決定していない。データが何を明らかにするのか、それが政策の適切な道筋にどう影響するのか、私にはわからない。本当にわからない。ただ、私たちがどのようにその評価を下すかは知っている。それが私の知っていることです。
一歩引いて考えてみると、現在の状況は、インフレ率が目標にかなり近づいており、失業率が低いまま推移している。私たちは、このような状態を継続させるために、私たちのツールを活用することに非常に重点を置いています。各会議やすべての決定において、私たちの焦点はそのことだけに絞られ、それ以外のことは何も考えていない。私たちは最善の思考を働かせている。経済を理解するために最善を尽くす。
我々は学者に従う。私たちを解説で祝福してくれる多くのコメンテーターに従う。しかし、政治日程のような他の要因に対処するために、私たちのアプローチを変えることはない。議会は私たちに、一部の時間帯だけでなく、常に非政治的な方法で業務を遂行するよう命じていると信じている。これも申し上げておきます。私たちは、政党や政治家、あるいは政治的な結果を支持したり反対したりするために私たちのツールを使うことは決してありません。
要するに、私たちが自分の役割を果たすために全力を尽くし、自分の役割を貫けば、それがすべてのアメリカ人に利益をもたらすということだ。それがうまくいけば、経済はより強くなる。物価は安定する。人々は職を見つけるだろう。賃金は実質的に上昇する。誰もが恩恵を受ける。それが私たちの信念であり、常にそう行動するつもりです。私はFRBで4回目の大統領選挙を経験しました。これが私たちの考え方です。これが私たちの行動です。ですから、選挙前、選挙中、選挙後に私たちが行うことは、データ、見通し、リスクバランスに基づくものであり、それ以外のものではありません。
ジョリーン
少しフォローアップを。あなたの経済予測とモデルは、ハリスとトランプという2人の大統領候補の全く異なる経済計画を考慮していますか？もしそうなら、どのように？
パウエル
そのようなことはしていません。絶対にしません。どちらが勝つかわからない。彼らが何をするつもりなのかもわからない。わかっているかのように振る舞うことはしないし、そんなことはできない。基本的に、我々には予想がある。さまざまな可能性のある政策のシミュレーションを行うことはできますが、まだ起こっていない選挙の結果に基づいて政策を決定しようとは決してしません。それは、私たちが決して越えない一線なのです。私たちは非政治機関です。政治には一切関わりたくないので、そのようなことはしない。
ニコラス 
パウエル委員長、ありがとうございました。バロンズ誌のニコラス・ジャシンスキーです。しばらく金利決定で反対票が出たことはない。もし、あなたが期待するようにデータが進化し、9月の会合までに信頼感が高まれば、9月の利上げ決定には全会一致で賛成票が投じられるという感覚をお持ちですか？
パウエル
基本的に、どの程度確信が必要なのかについて、委員会メンバーの評価に意味のある違いがあるのでしょうか？意味のある違いは常にあります。あります。会議の前も、最中も、会議の後も、私たちはよく話し合う。このようなことについては、非常にしっかりと議論しています。あなたの言う通り、ほとんどの場合、人々は自分の意見を聞いてもらえたと感じ、自分の立場が真剣に考慮されたと思えば、ほとんどの場合、それで十分なのです。反対意見もある。それは構わない。誰にも拒否権はない。一人の人間に拒否権はないのだから、誰に賛成し、誰に反対するかの問題だ。反対意見もある。
パンデミックの時代にはそれほど多くなかったし、物事を正しく進めなければならないというプレッシャーが強かったので、結束が強まったと感じただけかもしれない。しかし、パンデミック以前は、たくさんの反対意見があった。異論は起こるものだ。それはプロセスの一部だ。異論は悪いことではないし、起こるなら起こることだ。
ジーン
 こんにちは。MNIマーケットニュースのジーン・ヤングです。最初の利下げとして50ベーシス・ポイントの利下げはあり得るのでしょうか？
パウエル
それは言いたくないし、具体的に何をするかということになるが、今考えていることではない。 もちろん、今日の時点では何も決めていないわ。
ジェニファー
ありがとう、ベル委員長。ヤフーファイナンスのジェニファー・ションバーガーです。議事録に立ち入るわけではありませんが、あなたは今日、この会議で動くための本格的な議論があったとおっしゃいました。今日の会合で、早ければ9月にも利下げの可能性についてどのような議論がなされたのか、もう少し詳しく教えていただけないでしょうか。
パウエル
会議の構成としては、初日は金融安定性について議論する。その後、経済に関する会合があり、今朝は金融政策に関する会合があります。経済政策と金融政策の両方において、人々はそれぞれの意見を述べると思います。様々な見方があります。スピーチでお分かりのように、経済についての考え方は人それぞれです。議事録では、私が口頭で述べるよりもずっとうまく説明できると思いますが、さまざまな見方があります。私たちはコンセンサスを重視する組織だと思います。
これは全会一致の決定であり、最終的には有権者だけでなく全員がこの結果を支持した。また、今回の会議で移籍の可能性、ケースを検討した人もいたとは思いますが、委員会の感覚としては、今回の会議ではなく、データの出方にもよりますが、早ければ次回の会議というのが圧倒的でした。
ジェニファー
しかし、インフレが実現すれば、次回の会合で動く可能性があるという確信が高まっているのですね？
パウエル
はい。データ全体がそのような結果を支持しているのであれば、間違いありません。その通りです。先ほど申し上げたように、その時が近づいていると考えていますし、もし期待通りのデータが出れば、9月の会合で政策金利を引き下げることもあり得ます。
ナンシー 
パウエル議長、こんにちは。マーケットプレイスのナンシー・マーシャル＝ゲンザーです。ビル・ダドリー元ニューヨーク総裁が今月初め、ブルームバーグに寄稿した論説をご覧になった方も多いだろう。今、金利を下げることは不必要にリスクを高めることになる。彼は間違っているのだろうか？
パウエル
これは我々が下すべき判断であり、その判断は十分に承知している。申し上げたように、我々は早すぎるリスクと遅すぎるリスクを天秤にかけなければならない。もし早すぎれば、昨年の7ヶ月の好調の後、多くのアドバイスがあった。我々はそうしなかった。私たちはもっと様子を見る必要があると言った。その後、インフレ率の上昇が見られた。四半期に1度、良好なインフレが見られ、労働市場も大きく動いています。今申し上げたように、労働市場に関連したインフレ結果を得るためには、これ以上冷え込む必要はないと思います。もちろん、すべてのインフレがそうだというわけではありません。委員会の判断としては、その時期が近づいているということです。もしデータがそれを裏付ければ、その時期は9月になるかもしれません。
ナンシー
ハードランディングの可能性は高まったのでしょうか？
パウエル
可能性が高まったかどうかはわかりません。可能性は低いと思います。つまり、景気が過熱しているとか、急激に弱くなっているとか、そう考える根拠が見当たらないということです。今のデータにはそれがない。今データにあるのは、堅調なペースで成長している経済、冷え込んだ労働市場、それにもかかわらずインフレ、失業率の低さだ。全体として労働市場は堅調だ。つまり、これが現実なのです。景気は過熱しているわけでも、急激に弱くなっているわけでもない。あなたが見たいと思うようなものです。
しかしもちろん、仕事が終わることはない。私たちは経済がどちらに向かうのかを見守っている。弱気に対応するのであれば、そのための十分な準備はできていると思う。しかし、私たちが見ているのはそのような状況ではない。私たちが目にしているのは、力強い経済活動と良好な労働市場、そしてインフレ率の低下です。
グレッグ。
ありがとうございました。数週間前に公表された6月会合の議事録では、コミュニケーションについて議論され、FRB当局者の中には、FRBはその反応機能を十分に明確にしていないのではないかと言う人もいました。また、FRBにコメントを寄せているコメンテーターに話を聞くと、何が判断材料になるのか、おそらく最初の引き下げではなく、今後の引き下げペースがどうなるのか、よくわからないという。彼らにはその感覚がないのです。それをどう判断するのか、何か言えることはありますか？
パウエル
ええ、つまり、現実問題として、予測する人たちは、これは決してFRBに限ったことではありませんが、予測する人たちは、例えば昨年の経済の強さに絶えず驚いています。だから、あれやこれやとフォワードガイダンスを出すことには、かなり謙虚でなければならないと思う。その点についてはかなり慎重になる必要がある。
また、データドリブンになると言っている場合、もちろん、常にデータがどうであるか、それが見通しやリスクバランスにどう影響するかということですが、誰も将来の深いところまで見通せるわけではありません。
リアクション・ファンクションという点では、ずっと昔から議論されてきたことだ。実際、私たちがインフレを抑えることに非常に重点を置いていることは、長い間、誰もが理解していたと思います。この点については、誰も混乱することはなかった。インフレ率については、前四半期に大幅な改善が見られました。市場はこのデータによって動いているのであって、データによって動いているわけではありません。私たちがどうするかということではありません。むしろ、データがどんどん入ってきて、市場はそのデータにとてもとても敏感に反応しています。
ジャック、最後の質問です。
 ありがとうございました。レイの話から少し話を変えます。FRBが発足して1年あまりが経ちますが、中央銀行のデジタル通貨についてはあまり話題になっていません。デジタル通貨はもう終わった問題なのでしょうか？委員会の中ではまだ議論されているのでしょうか？
パウエル
FOMCでは全く話題になりません。もっと広く言えば、デジタル金融は、一般的な決済や即時決済に大きな影響を与える分野です。これは、世界中の決済方法をより効率的で、できれば安全なものに変えていくものです。私たちは、コンビーナーとして、またオペレーターとして、決済分野で重要な役割を果たしています。CBDCに関しては、目新しいことは何もありません。全くと言っていいほど何もありません。私たちは、一般に利用可能なリテールCBDCを発行する権限を持っていません。私たちはその権限を求めていません。私たちがしているのは、その動向を把握することです。世界の主要な中央銀行のほとんどが、少なくともそのようなことを行っています。中にはCBDCの導入を真剣に検討しているところもある。しかし、私たちはそうではありません。私たちはただ、世の中で起きていることを評価しているだけです。しかし、CBDCを実施する計画はありません。議会に諮る必要があるが、その計画もない。ここにいる誰も、まだそれがいいアイデアだと決めていません。ありがとうございました。