トランプ：発言  
記者：発言  
側近：発言  

トランプ：Well, it depends on the deal. I mean, I may not do the deal or I may do the deal. TikTok is worthless, worthless. If I don't approve it, it has to close. I learned that from the people that own it. If it if I don't do the deal, it's worthless, worth nothing. If I do the deal, it's worth maybe a trillion dollars, a trillion. So if I do the deal for the I'm talking about doing it for the United States, if I do the deal for the United States, then I think we should get half. In other words, I think the U.S. should be entitled to get half of TikTok. And congratulations, TikTok has a good partner. And that would be worth, you know, could be five hundred billion dollars or something. It's crazy. The numbers are crazy, but it's worthless. If I don't if the president doesn't sign, then it's worthless. If the president does sign, it's worth maybe a trillion dollars. So I think like a joint venture, I think we would have a joint venture with the people from TikTok. We'll see what happens. I mean, that's one of many ideas I've heard. The CEO of TikTok is around. Oh, I think he'd probably like it because he's got nothing. They really have nothing. It's passed in Congress. It gives the president a right to make it make a deal or to close it. And we have 90 days to make that decision. But I could see making a deal with the U.S. gets 50 percent of TikTok polices it a little bit or a lot depends on them. But remember, they make telephones in China. They make all sorts of things in China. Nobody ever complains about that here. They're complaining about this. There's so many different products made in China. Nobody ever complained about it. The only one they complain about is TikTok. And TikTok is largely young people. I guess I have a warm spot for TikTok that I didn't have originally. But, you know, I went on TikTok and I won young people by 36 percent, Peter. And Republicans typically don't do too well with young people. But it's a different Republican Party. 

記者：Or how would it get that 50 percent? 

トランプ：No, you'd take 50 percent of TikTok for the approval that TikTok could continue in business. And they'd have a great partner. The U.S. would be their partner. But the U.S. essentially would be paid for doing that half of the value of TikTok. 

記者：Would there be a private sector owner? 

トランプ：Could be. Could be a lot. Tell you what, every rich person has called me about TikTok. You wanted to block TikTok. Why did it change your mind? 

トランプ：Because I got to use it. And remember, TikTok is largely about kids, young kids. If China is going to get information about young kids, I don't know. To be honest, I think we have bigger problems than that. But, you know, when you take a look at telephones that are made in China and all the other things that are made in China, military equipment made in China, TikTok, I think TikTok is not their biggest problem. But there's big value in TikTok if it gets approved. If it doesn't get approved, there's no value. So if we create that value, why aren't we entitled to like half? 

記者：Does Biden ever do news conferences like this? 

トランプ：How many news conferences, Peter, has he done like this? None. Zero. And it would be zero for the next infinity. For infinity, it would be zero. 

トランプ：Elon is very busy sending rocket ships up to various places with lots of satellites on them. 

記者：What is your reaction to the confirmation of Marco Rubio? And what does it mean for Latin America? 

トランプ：Which one? 

記者：Marco Rubio. 

トランプ：He said Macro. Marco. Yeah, he's. I think he's great. I think Marco is doing a fantastic job. I think he's going to get a lot of votes. I think he's going to be at 90 percent or something. I mean, I'm hearing very good people now. They know him in the Senate. They know he's good. He's doing a good job. 

記者：I don't know. I can't tell you. I don't know what's going to happen with that. He's got some very strong ideas. 

側近：Marco, did you sign the order? 

トランプ：Yeah. Yes, that was just just signed. 

記者：How many of you are changing Venezuela, changing power? Are you still committed with Maduro leaving power in Venezuela? 

トランプ：Well, we're going to find out about that, too, because we're going to probably stop buying oil from Venezuela. We don't need their oil. 

記者：Another embargo like the first term? 

トランプ：Well, it could be, but we don't want to buy. We don't have to buy their oil. We have plenty of oil for ourselves. So President Trump will change Venezuela quite a bit. 

記者：President Trump, there was a lot of concern about this during the campaign, a question that only works today. Are you a dictator? 

トランプ：No, no. I can't imagine even being called. No, I believe in the sanctity of the vote. The Democrats didn't because they cheated like dogs. But I believe in the sanctity. And this was too big to rig. This last election was just too big to rig. 

記者：When do you plan to speak to President Putin? 

トランプ：Could be very soon. And you've talked a bit about Ukraine and Russia, but how long do you think it would take to end that conflict? 

トランプ：I have to speak to President Putin. We're going to have to find out. He can't be thrilled. He's not doing so well. I mean, he's grinding it out. But most people thought that war would have been over in about one week. And now you're into three years. So he can't be thrilled. It's not making him look very good. Now, eventually, you know, I mean, it's a big machine, so things will happen. But I think you'd be very well off to end that war. We have numbers that almost a million Russian soldiers have been killed. About 700,000 Ukrainian soldiers are killed. Russia is bigger. They have more soldiers to lose. But that's no way to run a country. 

トランプ：Just gave me the right to sell it or close it. Essentially, with TikTok, I have the right to either sell it or close it. And we'll make that determination. And we may have to get an approval from China, too. I'm not sure, but I'm sure they'll approve it. And if they don't approve it, it would be somewhat of a hostile act, I think. But it's good for China if it gets approved. 

記者：Mr. President, you're not guaranteeing that TikTok will be around after 90 days of success? 

トランプ：No, but it could very well be. It makes sense for it to be because it's got tremendous value. But if we create the value by approving, you know, in other words, that approval gives a tremendous value. If that's the case, then we should be entitled to 50 percent as a country. 

記者：You haven't heard that one before, right? That's called a joint venture. 

トランプ：And nobody ever thought that way before. 

記者：What about your partner? 

トランプ：Well, I don't know. I think it's I think you have a lot of people that would be interested in TikTok with the United States as a partner. 

記者：Mr. President, what was it like walking into the Oval Office this evening? 

トランプ：Oh, what a great feeling. One of the better feelings I've ever had. 

記者：Do you like this town better now than in 2017? 

トランプ：Well, we're very experienced now. You would say nobody's ever had experience like I have. I've dealt with some very good people. I've dealt with some very bad people. And I know who the bad ones are and the good ones are. You know, don't forget, I was very successful in primarily the real estate business. And people used to say, who's worse, a politician or a vicious real estate developer? And it was a you know, the real estate developer is far worse. But after about three months and getting to know scum like Adam Schiff and other people like that, I said, no, actually, real estate people are quite nice by comparison. 

記者：You said you plan to speak with President Putin soon. What about President Zelensky? And what's your message? 

トランプ：Yeah, I would. But he told me he wants to make a deal. I mean, he wants to make Zelensky wants to make a deal. I don't know if Putin does. He might not. He should make a deal. I think he's destroying Russia by not making a deal. I think Russia's gonna be in big trouble. You take a look at their economy, you take a look at the inflation in Russia. So I would I would hope I got along with him. Great. And, you know, I would hope he wants to make a deal. 

記者：Mr. President, are you keeping U.S. sanctions on Russia until he makes a deal? 

トランプ：Well, sanctions or tariffs. I think the word tariff is much better because it keeps your dollar stronger. I think tariffs are more effective. I use sanctions on Iran. Iran was broke. When I left office, Iran was broke. They had no money for Hamas or Hezbollah. None. They were flat broke. And October 7th would have never happened. And I think you all know that it would have never happened. They had no money. Now they're rich, but, you know, they're weakened in a different way. I would say that the one attack by Israel really set them back. It really set them back. The pages, the pages and others. You know, the attack on air defense was a that was a bad attack. 

記者：And what are you signing now? 

トランプ：It's an executive order relating to reforms to the federal workforce, including to the senior executive service. We're getting rid of all of the cancer. I call it cancer, the cancer caused by the Biden administration. 

記者：How confident are you, Mr. President, that you can keep the ceasefire in Gaza and conclude the three phases of the deal? 

トランプ：I'm not confident. That's not our war. It's their war. But I'm not confident. But I think they're very weakened on the other side. Gaza. I looked at a picture of Gaza. Gaza is like a massive demolition site that places. It's really got to be rebuilt in a different way. My mind. You know, Gaza is interesting. It's a phenomenal location on the sea. The best weather. You know, everything's good. It's like some beautiful things could be done with it. But it's very interesting. But some fantastic things could be done with Gaza. 

記者：How do you see the future in governance for Gaza? 

トランプ：Well, it depends. I can't imagine you could have. Well, you certainly can't have the people that were there. Most of them are dead, by the way. Most of them are dead. But they didn't exactly run it well. Run viciously and badly. So you can't have that. 

トランプ：If China didn't approve it, we could put tariffs on China. Don't forget. China charges us tariffs and we charge them very little, except for what I did. I put a lot of took in hundreds of billions of dollars. But until I came along, China never paid 10 cents to this country. They ripped us off and they never paid anything. But like if we wanted to make a deal with TikTok and it was a good deal and China wouldn't approve it, then I think ultimately they'd approve it because we'd put tariffs on China. Maybe. I'm not saying I would, but you certainly could do that. And if we said, well, you're not going to approve it, then that's a certain hostility. And we'll put tariffs of 25, 30, 40, 50 percent, even 100 percent. And if we did that, I think they'd approve it. 

記者：President Trump, you've seen the other living presidents a couple of times in the last few months. If you ever had to call on one of them for advice on anything that's going on, which one would you call? 

トランプ：That's interesting. Well, I thought Bill Clinton was a very good politician. I don't think he was used properly. I think they disrespected him. When Hillary was running, he came back and he said, you know, you better get up to Michigan and Wisconsin. You remember that, Peter? Every house has a Trump sign on it. And they all laughed at him because the Republicans had won Michigan and Wisconsin for decades, a long time. And they all laughed at Bill Clinton. Like, the hell does he know? And he turned out to be right because I won both of them. And then we just won both in this election, too. We won Wisconsin and Michigan and every other swing state. We won all the swing states, all seven. They talked about seven swing states. We won them all. So, but I, Bill Clinton was, he had a great political sense, I think. 

記者：It looked like you were having a good conversation with President Obama. 

トランプ：I was. And you'd like to know what it was? Everybody wants to know. I wouldn't want to, but we were having some crazy conversation. And why do you ask any question like that? You don't, I don't think you want to know. You might not. You might be insulted. 

トランプ：It's an executive order relating to holding former government officials accountable for unlawful disclosure of sensitive information. 

記者：This next one, sir, is a declaration of a national energy emergency. 

トランプ：That's a big one. You know, that allows you to, that means you can do whatever you have to do to get out of that problem. And we do have that kind of an emergency. 

記者：President Trump, at some point, will you use your powers of the presidency to tell Americans who are concerned about drones? 

トランプ：In fact, I'd like to know because I just got here. I just came here. I've been here for what, 15 minutes now? Do people listen? And I got to read this letter too, because of you, I found this letter. I can read it for you. It's interesting. 

トランプ：Yeah, I know you would. Your father would too. But is it anything, these drones, is it anything that people need to be worried about? 

トランプ：No, I think it's, I think it's terrible. I would like to find out what it is and tell the people. And can you commit to some kind of... 

トランプ：In fact, I'd like to do that. Could we find out what that was, Susie? 

側近：Okay. 

トランプ：Yeah. Why don't we find out? Immediately. I mean, I can't imagine it's an enemy or there would have been, you know, people would have gotten blown up or maybe they were testing things. I don't know why they wouldn't have said what it was. They had a lot of them flying over Bedminster, which is interesting. 

トランプ：And with the events today and yesterday, was everything moved inside just for cold weather or was there some kind of security? 

トランプ：No, no, no, no security because they had everything shut down to drones. You know, you can shut that down pretty easily if you're sophisticated. They're very sophisticated, these people. No, it was just cold weather. And we made a good move because, first of all, I thought it was incredible in the Capitol today. You know why I liked it? Because I got great reviews on that speech. I got great reviews. Can you believe it? They actually were fair. Maybe the fake news is changing. 

トランプ：Unleashing energy production. Unleashing energy production. But I thought it was, I think having it in the Capitol is great. Obviously, you can take care of the people you have to take care of. The city was booming. And if we would have done it outside, people would have been hurt because it was really cold. You know, it was like, look, sunny. But when you stood outside for 10 minutes, people were running back in. It was really cold and really windy. The wind brings it down a lot. So we made the right decision. You couldn't have stayed. I don't think you could have had it out. You know how cold it was today. It was people went out for a little while just to test it. They couldn't stay out more than 10 minutes. They all came back in. So we would have had a disaster if we did that. And people would have been hurt. 

記者：The unlawful disclosure, is that related to the Hunter Biden situation? 

トランプ：Which one? 

記者：The one on unlawful disclosures by federal officials, is that related? 

トランプ：No, I think it's just more general than that. It's not Hunter Biden. I was, I was surprised that President Biden would go and pardon his whole family, because that makes him look very guilty. You know, I could have pardoned my family. I could have pardoned myself, my family. I said, if I do that, it's going to make me look very guilty. I don't think I'd be sitting here, frankly. If I did that, I don't think I'd be sitting here right now, because I would have would have shown that you're guilty. But by pardoning his brother or brothers, by pardoning all of those people that he pardoned, by pardoning J6, the unselect committee, they destroyed all of the documents. They deleted all of the information. There's no information. And a lot of the information pertains to Nancy Pelosi, because she was given one on, I mean, you know this, it's on tape with her daughter. Nancy Pelosi was responsible for not taking advantage of 10,000 soldiers or 1,000. You wouldn't have need, you could have used 400. It was a relatively small crowd. It wasn't the crowd that was at the mall. It was a small crowd. So I was, I was a little bit surprised that he did it, because it makes him look guilty. I mean, he's going to have to live with it. Now, with that being said, it's unbelievable precedent it creates for a president. But the precedent is unbelievable. Now, maybe every president that leaves office, they're going to pardon every person they ever met. So they don't have some lunatic like deranged Jack Smith, who's a total lunatic, by the way, not a smart guy. He's a dummy. But we beat the hell out of him. And I helped my reputation. 

記者：Do you think you'd have to do the same thing at the end of this term? 

トランプ：Well, I guess now I have precedent to do it. I don't, I wouldn't want to do that. No, I think it makes you look very guilty. I think it makes Biden look very bad, very weak and very guilty. And I mean, he pardoned everybody. How about this J6 committee? How do you, why is he pardoning them? The reason is because if you delete and destroy documentation, everything, they have nothing because they were guilty as hell. They rigged it. It was a rig deal. And when you do that, they look very bad. But I was a little surprised he did it. Liz Cheney, I mean, she's a lunatic. And she lost by the greatest margin in the history of a politician running for Congress, like 40 points. The reason it was the greatest is because anybody losing that badly is going to drop out. But she's a nut job. She doesn't drop out. You know, she just keeps chugging forward. And she lost by almost 40 points. That's the biggest number anybody's ever lost by. But why would Biden do that? He pardoned her and pardoned everybody. The reason is that they destroyed documents. And if you're even in a civil case, which this wouldn't be, I mean, people go to jail for a long time for doing that. 

記者：What's this one? 

トランプ：That's unleashing American energy, sir. Relates to using permitting processes and other regulatory systems to ensure that we can produce energy efficiently to drive the American economy forward. 

記者：President Trump, looking around the office, we noticed some changes from the way the Biden has set up. Can you confirm that you have added back the diet coke? 

トランプ：I think this we first of all, I just got here. So my people came in. They have extraordinary decorator sense, right? Let me just see some of the pictures. That's a good one. I could live with him. I can live with George Washington. I can tell you I can live with Thomas Jefferson. I can live with most of them. They took a very safe route. They didn't. They don't have any bad ones up there. 

トランプ：Withdrawing from what is withdrawing from the World Health Organization. So that's a big one. So we paid 500 million dollars to World Health when I was here and I terminated China with one point four billion people. We have three fifty. We have. Nobody knows what we have because so many people came in illegally. But let's say we have three twenty five. They had one point four billion. They were paying thirty nine million. We were paying five hundred million. Seemed a little unfair to me. So that wasn't the reason. But I dropped out. They offered me to come back for thirty nine million. In theory, it should be less than that. But, you know.