トランプ：発言  
記者：発言  
側近：発言  

トランプ：Okay, and how many people is this? I think this order will apply to approximately 1,500 people, sir.  

側近：So this is January 6th, and these are the hostages. Approximately 1,500 for a pardon.  

トランプ：Yes. Full pardon.  

記者：Full pardon or commutation?  

トランプ：Full pardon.  

側近：Okay. We have about six commutations in there where we're doing further research.  

トランプ：Nice to see you again. So this is a big one. Anything you want to explain about this?  

側近：We hope they come out tonight, frankly, if you're expecting it.  

記者：How many people?  

側近：Approximately 1,500 people. Six commutations.  

記者：Were there any cases you did not mean or a pardon of people?  

トランプ：We're looking at different things, but the commutations would be the ones that we'll take a look, and maybe it'll stay that way or it'll go to get a full pardon.  

側近：And the order does require the Bureau of Prisons to act immediately on receipt of the pardons and commutation orders.  

記者：Sir, this is an exact—  

トランプ：Why don't we get that down so they can get them going right now?  

側近：Yes, sir. Is that okay?  

トランプ：Yep, absolutely.  

側近：This is a proclamation guaranteeing the state's protection against invasion based on the current crisis at the southern border.  

トランプ：It invokes various executive powers relating to the ongoing invasion at the southern border.  

記者：Mr. President, why do you feel confident that those are not going to be blocked by the courts?  

トランプ：I don't think they will. I don't think they can be. They're very straight up.  

側近：Why don't you take that and go over here? Can you get him over here?  

記者：I'm not on the side angle. Do you mind? Just go right over here with your friends. Okay?  

側近：Sir, this is an executive order realigning the United States Refugee Admission Program to better align with American principles and American interests.  

トランプ：Okay.  

側近：Okay. Thank you, sir.  

側近：This next executive order is about protecting America from foreign terrorists and other national security and public safety threats.  

記者：Again, crisis at the border, but it goes beyond that and implicates other executive powers as well.  

記者：President Trump, if cartels are now going to be seen as foreign terror organizations, would you think about ordering U.S. Special Forces into Mexico to take them out?  

トランプ：Could happen. Stranger things have happened.  

記者：How will you make sure that Maduro will accept Venezuelans?  

トランプ：Well, we're going to see on Venezuela. We're looking at Venezuela very strongly. It's a country I know very well for a lot of reasons, and it was a great country 20 years ago, and now it's a mess, right?  

記者：Sir, can we expect ICE raids starting tomorrow in major cities?  

トランプ：What does that mean?  

記者：Can we expect ICE raids in major cities?  

トランプ：I don't want to say when, but it's going to happen. Has to happen. Oh, we're not going to have a country left.  

側近：This is actually an executive order designating the cartels and other organizations to be foreign terrorist organizations.  

トランプ：That's a big one. Yes, sir. People have wanted to do this for years.  

側近：So they are now designated as terrorist organizations, foreign, and Mexico probably doesn't want that.  

トランプ：But we have to do what's right. They're killing our people. They're killing 250,000, 300,000 American people a year. Not 100,000, like has been reported for 15 years. It's probably 300,000.  

記者：I don't know. You'll have to ask them, sir.  

側近：This is an executive order entitled protecting the American people against invasion, which again deals with the southern border and the unprecedented admission of illegal illegal aliens across the southern border.  

記者：What do you think the biggest national security threat the U.S. has faced in the last 15 years?  

記者：What do you think the biggest national security threat to the U.S., Mr. President?  

記者：What's going to be your priority on foreign policy?  

トランプ：Say? What's going to be your priority on foreign policy? What do you see as the biggest? Foreign policy is a big statement. I mean, my priority on foreign policy, it's going to keep it's going to be to keep America safe. Very simple. It's a big question, though. That's a very big question.  

記者：Who is going to be the first foreign leader that you plan to meet or who you're going to call tomorrow on your first day?  

トランプ：I've already been meeting people. I've been meeting them. I've been talking to them. I met with Prime Minister Trudeau, like all Governor Trudeau. I met with numerous foreign leaders. Go ahead.  

記者：Sir, this next order relates to the definition of birthright citizenship under the 14th Amendment of the United States.  

トランプ：That's a good one. Birthright. That's a big one. What about that one?  

記者：Could be. I think we have good grounds, but you could be right. I mean, you'll find out. It's ridiculous. We're the only country in the world that does this with birthright, as you know, and it's just absolutely ridiculous. But, you know, we'll see. We think we have very good grounds.  

記者：Sir, people have wanted to do this for decades.  

側近：Sir, this is a proclamation declaring a national emergency at the southern border of the United States.  

トランプ：That's a big one. A lot of big ones, huh? You know what that means, right?  

記者：President Trump, did President Biden leave you a letter?  

トランプ：He may have. Don't they leave it in the desk? I don't know.  

記者：Oh. What's in there?  

側近：Thank you, Peter. It could have been years before we found this.  

トランプ：Wow. Thank you. Can we read it on the outside? Maybe we should all read it together.  

記者：Let's read it.  

トランプ：Well, maybe I'll read it first and then make that determination. That sounds great. Peter, thank you very much. I may not have seen this for months.  

トランプ：Happy to help with the passing of the torch. I did. I left him one in the desk, just like this.  

記者：What is he talking about?  

トランプ：Unification of our country. You know, I didn't know that he gave a pardon to his family because he did it during my speech.  

記者：He didn't tell you in the letter?  

トランプ：No, he didn't tell me. No, no. He did it. They released it during my speech. I mean, during my speech. So all I could do was say, excuse me, I'd like to come back and speak some more. So, no, we were surprised by that. It's bad precedent, obviously.  

トランプ：Well, we're thinking in terms of 25% on Mexico and Canada because they're allowing vast numbers of people. Canada is a very bad abuser also. Vast numbers of people to come in and fentanyl to come in.  

側近：I think February 1st. I think we'll do it February 1st. On each.  

トランプ：This is an executive order taking a large number of executive actions to secure our southern border.  

記者：OK. Sounds reasonable.  

記者：President Trump, we remember four years ago, Barack Obama had told you that the top threat to the country was going to be North Korea. Did Joe Biden tell you what he thinks the top threat to the country is?  

トランプ：No, no. I think we have a lot of them right now. We really I think we have a lot. I think North Korea turned out to be good. I was very friendly with him. He liked me. I liked him. We got along very well. They thought that was a tremendous threat. Now, he is a nuclear power, but we we got along. I think you'll be happy to see him coming back. And I think he has tremendous condo capabilities. Got a lot of shoreline.  

記者：Thank you, sir. Are you going to work with countries from South America to coordinate on immigration?  

トランプ：About who?  

記者：About immigration in general.  

トランプ：This is an executive order.  

記者：Sorry, sir. I'm fine with legal immigration. I like it. We need people. And I'm absolutely fine with it. We want to have it. We need it because we're going to have a lot of companies coming in to avoid tariffs. You know, if you don't want tariffs, all you have to do is build your plant in the U.S. So we're going to have a lot of workers coming in. But we have to have legal immigration.  

記者：Do you have a date in mind for when you want to put in on the China tariffs that you talked about?  

トランプ：Which one? Sixty percent?  

記者：No. You're talking about which? Say it again.  

トランプ：The China tariffs, the broad tariffs.  

記者：Oh, China? Well, as you know, I put on large tariffs on China, and they've really been forced to leave them. And if we didn't leave them, you wouldn't have one steel mill that's open in this country because they were dumping massive amounts of steel.  

トランプ：We've taken in hundreds of billions of dollars from China because — and they were unable to terminate the tariffs I put on China because it was too much money, and the budget didn't work, and other reasons, too.  

記者：No, I mean, we're going to have meetings and calls with President Xi. I spoke to President Xi last week, as you know. Did you know that? I had a very good phone call. A long one.  

記者：You were concerned with NATO at this moment. Are you planning to leave NATO alive soon?  

トランプ：No, NATO has to pay more money. NATO has to pay 5 percent. We are — we're in the Ukraine war by $200 billion more than NATO. It's ridiculous because it affects them a lot more. We have an ocean in between. And we're — we've spent $200 billion more on Ukraine than NATO has spent. And they've got to equalize.  

記者：Did you talk to Xi about — did you talk to Xi about the Ukraine war?  

トランプ：Yeah. Because China and Brazil together has a proposal to bring Russia and Ukraine to talk.  

記者：Oh, that's good. That's fine. I'm — I'm ready.  

記者：When are you going to talk with the Brazilian president?  

トランプ：How did Brazil get involved?  

記者：This is a new one. When are you going to talk to Lula?  

トランプ：Are you from Brazil?  

記者：I'm from Brazil.  

トランプ：Ah, that's — that's why they're involved, I guess. When are you going to talk with the Brazilian president?  

記者：How do you see your relationship with Latin America and Brazil?  

トランプ：Great. Should be great. They need us much more than we need them. We don't need them. They need us. Everybody needs us.  

記者：Mr. President, it sounds like you will not receive an additional China tariff, necessarily, depending on how talks go with President Xi. Is that correct?  

記者：What does that — define that?  

トランプ：Well, you — we are asking — you pledged in the campaign officially a 10 percent tariff because of fentanyl.  

記者：That's only because of fentanyl. There are other things, too.  

トランプ：And a very big thing is the Panama Canal. China controls the Panama Canal. What's that all about?  

トランプ：They're not supposed to be — when Jimmy Carter gave it, which was a terrible mistake — a terrible mistake — he didn't do it. He didn't give it to China. He gave it to Panama. And China controls the Panama Canal. And we're not going to allow that to happen.  

記者：We're not — no, we're not going to allow that to happen.  

記者：Thank you, sir. What can we expect of the countries in NATO that spend the least amount of money, like Spain, France, below the 5 percent?  

トランプ：Spain is very low. And yet, are they a BRICS nation?  

記者：They're a BRICS nation, Spain. You know what a BRICS nation is?  

トランプ：You'll figure it out. But — and if the BRICS nations want to do that, that's okay. But we're going to put at least a 100 percent tariff on the business they do with the United States. You know what the BRICS is, right? You guys know. You know what I'm saying, right? You know what I'm saying.  

トランプ：So, it's not even a threat. In fact, since I made that statement, Biden said, well, they have us over a barrel. I said, no, we have them over a barrel. And there's no way they're going to be able to do that.  

側近：This is an executive order relating to —  

記者：Are they risking 100 percent tariffs, those countries, like Spain?  

トランプ：As a BRICS nation, yes. They'll have a 100 percent tariff if they so much as even think about doing what they thought.  

記者：Can you explain how it's —  

トランプ：Which — and therefore, they'll give it up immediately. So will China give it up.  

側近：Sir, this is about reforming the system of hiring in the federal government to ensure that merit is the lodestar of hiring decisions.  

トランプ：Oh, as per the Supreme Court. Other matters.  

側近：Yes, sir.  

記者：Mr. President —  

トランプ：This is a big deal. Merit. Our country is going to be based on merit again. Can you — can you believe it?  

記者：Mr. President, you had said you would end the Russia-Ukraine draw in the first aid office. Where do things stand right now?  

トランプ：Well, there's only half a day. I have another half a day left. We'll see. We want to get it done.  

記者：This is an order creating and implementing the Department of Governmental Efficiency, known as DOGE.  

トランプ：Okay, that's a big one.  

記者：Is Elon Musk going to get a West Wing office?  

トランプ：No. He's getting an office for about 20 people that we're hiring to make sure that these get implemented.  

トランプ：We have a problem in this country. You sign an executive order, it doesn't get done for six months. As an example, when we allow the J6 hostages to go out, it might not be approved. And under the old days, by — for two weeks, three weeks, six months. You know, they had a good ruling from the Supreme Court, and it's like nothing happened. That ruling was six months ago. You know that. And it was like they didn't have a ruling. They've been treated very unfair. The judges have been absolutely brutal. The prosecutors have been brutal. Nobody has ever treated people in this country like that.  

記者：Mr. President, are you commuting the sentences of anyone who assaulted a police officer on January 6th?  

トランプ：Well, we're looking at two police officers, actually, that — Washington police officers, who went after an illegal — and things happened, and they ended up putting them in jail. They got five-year jail sentences. You know the case. And we're looking at that in order to give them a — we got to give them a break.  

記者：But is there a clemency in your actions today for anyone who assaulted —  

トランプ：Well, it would be a pardon. That would be a pardon. The one I'm talking about would be a pardon.  

側近：Here you go, sir.  

記者：Should there be punishment for the people who assaulted law enforcement officers that day?  

トランプ：Well, I will say this. They've been in jail for a long time already. I see murderers in this country get two years, one year, and maybe no time. So they've already been in jail for a long time. These people have been destroyed. What they've done to these people is outrageous. There's rarely been anything like it in history, in the history of our country.  

トランプ：And even people that were aggressive — and in many cases, I believe they happened to be outside agitators. But, you know, what do I know, right? But I think they were. I think they were outside agitators. There were outside agitators involved. And obviously, the FBI was involved, because Ray admitted the FBI was involved. Didn't he say 23 people, indirectly or directly, were involved? And it was then 26. That's a lot of people.  

トランプ：Now, we have — we've got to take care of — these people have been treated so badly. It's never happened before. What happened in Seattle, where they took over a big portion of the city? What happened in Portland, where they burned down the city every day and people died? Nothing happened to anybody. But they go after these people violently. I mean, they're still going after brand-new people. They found somebody else with a picture. There's never been anything like this.  

トランプ：And, you know, it's almost 100 percent — think of this — almost 100 percent of the people are convicted. A hundred percent. It's Washington, D.C. People go into a trial, and they say, oh, I have a wonderful lawyer, and I didn't do anything wrong. And they end up in shackles almost immediately, and jail. No. Well, I can let it happen.  

記者：About Greenland, we have shown interest in buying it, but is there any other option that would satisfy you?  

トランプ：About what?  

記者：Greenland, instead of buying it.  

トランプ：Finland?  

記者：Greenland.  

トランプ：Oh, Greenland. Greenland is a wonderful place. We need it for international security. And I'm sure that Denmark will come along. I think it's costing them a lot of money to maintain it, to keep it. The people of Greenland are not happy with Denmark, as you know. I think they're happy with us. We had representatives — my son had representatives — went up there two weeks ago, and they like us. So we'll see what happens. But Greenland is necessary — not for us. It's necessary for international security. You have Russian boats all over the place. You have China boats all over the place. Warships. And they can't maintain it.  

トランプ：I'll be meeting with President Putin.  

記者：When will you meet?  

トランプ：I don't know. I can't speak, Senator.  

記者：When will your first trip, for example, be, sir?  

トランプ：So, first foreign trip, typically, has been with the UK. But we did it — I did it with Saudi Arabia last time, because they agreed to buy $450 billion worth of our products.  

トランプ：And we did it with the United States. And we did it with the United Kingdom. And we did it with the United States. And we did it with the United Kingdom. And we did it with the United States. And they agreed to buy $450 billion worth of our product. I said, I'll do it, but you have to buy American product. And they agreed to do that. They bought $450 billion. It was the least reported story I've ever been involved in.  

記者：And now? Where are you planning to go now?  

トランプ：Well, I don't know. If Saudi Arabia wanted to buy another $450 billion or $500 billion, we'll up it for all the inflation.  

記者：Mr. President, you said you were going to end the wars first day. How do you plan to end the Ukraine war?  

トランプ：Well, we're going to try and get it done as quickly as possible.  

記者：Do you want to push Israel and Saudi Arabia?  

トランプ：It should have never started. You know, the war with Ukraine and Russia should have never started. It would have never started if I were president.  

記者：Will you push Israel and Saudi Arabia to normalize relations?  

トランプ：I don't think I have to push them. I think it's going to happen, but maybe not quite yet. But they'll end up being in the Accords, the Abraham Accords.  

記者：President Trump, on-  

トランプ：I think Saudi Arabia will end up being in the Abraham Accords.  

記者：This year?  

トランプ：Could be, but, you know, soon. Not in a very long way.  

記者：Oh, look at that. It says TikTok. My, my, my. What is that all about?  

側近：First, we have Alaska, sir. This is an executive order relating to unleashing Alaska's potential as an energy reservoir for the entire nation.  

記者：And what about ANWR?  

側近：I believe that would be included in aspects of the order.  

トランプ：So we're opening up ANWR.  

記者：On the TikTok piece, President Trump, you and your members of your team now used to warn about the dangers of TikTok spying on Americans. What changed that you're not worried about that anymore?  