トランプ：発言  
記者：発言  
側近：発言  

トランプ：And when Biden came back, they came back for $500 million. He knew that you could have come back for $39 million. They wanted us back so badly. So we'll see what happens. Pretty sad, though. Think of it. China pays $39 million, and we pay $500 million. And China is a bigger country.  

記者：Mr. President, you spoke about inflation today in your remarks. What actions are you taking today that will have a direct impact for Americans on their everyday costs to bring costs down?  

トランプ：The biggest thing and factor for inflation is energy. They screwed up my energy policy. And then they went back to it. You know, they heard it really badly, and then they went back to it and they started drilling more. But by that time, it was too late. Many of these things that we're signing and that Doug Burgum is going to be signing and Chris Wright, who's phenomenal, you know, Energy Department of Energy, we're going to be taking a lot. We're going to make a lot of money from energy. We have more than anybody else.  

記者：What kind of universal tariff, if you did, do you want to put?  

トランプ：Well, you put a universal tariff on anybody doing business in the United States because they're coming in and they're stealing our wealth. They're stealing our jobs. They're stealing our companies. They're hurting our companies. So you put a tariff on to keep them from doing that.  

記者：Are you still considering a universal tariff, Mr. President, of all countries?  

トランプ：I may. Yeah, but we're not ready for that yet. We may put it, wrap it, because essentially all countries take advantage of the U.S. We don't make any good deals in the U.S. It's amazing in a way that we exist.  

記者：President Biden has been in his parallel address with one of them. Why don't you respond to that?  

トランプ：Well, he was, he had a lot of guys and then they found out that he didn't know what the hell he was talking about. And I think they deserted him. They deserted him. Those same guys. Look, I don't make pretenses, smart guys, but there are a lot of smart people around, but they did desert him.  

記者：Mr. President, going back to the World Health Organization, you were the president during COVID. Don't you see the importance of organization like that to coordinate a global response?  

トランプ：Sure I do. Not when you're being ripped off like we are by the world health. World health ripped us off. Everybody rips off the United States and that's it. It's not going to happen anymore.  

側近：Thank you very much, everybody.  

トランプ：All right, guys. Let's go.  

記者：One last one, sir.  

トランプ：Thank you, guys. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.  

側近：Let's go. Thanks, President.  

トランプ：Thank you, guys.  

記者：This is Mark.  

側近：You can yell as much as you want.  

トランプ：All right, guys. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.  

側近：Thanks. Thanks, Mark.  

トランプ：All right, thank you. Thanks, Rob. Thanks, Mark.  

記者：Hi, Rob. Is it off? Is it recording?  

側近：Is this off? Is it not recording?  

記者：Don't do the last one.  

側近：Yeah, we'll come back. We'll come back.  

記者：Hi, I'm Neru Nagahama. I'm visiting the NTT Musashino Research and Development Center.  

側近：Wow, that's huge.  

記者：Hello. Hi, Mr. Nagahama. Today I'm going to show you around.  

側近：Thank you.  

記者：This R&D Forum is an event where NTT's research and development results are publicly announced.  

側近：Yes, a researcher for a day. I'm excited.  

記者：Hello. Hello. I'm Nagahama. Nice to meet you.  

側近：Nice to meet you. I'll show you around the booth.  

記者：Yes. By the way, Mr. Nagahama, do you know what ION is?  

側近：Yes. It's a high-capacity, low-power, low-consumption device, right?  

記者：That's right. It's also featured in commercials.  

側近：Yes. It's a new communication platform that makes that possible.  

記者：Oh. ION has three main technologies. Today, I'd like you to experience APN, or All Photonics Network.  

側近：What is that? It looks amazing.  

記者：Previous networks needed to be converted from light signals to electrical signals. But at that time, it consumes energy and power.  

側近：However, All Photonics Network is a technology that solves that by turning everything from start to finish into light.  

記者：Wow. Now, here at All Photonics Network, you can enjoy communication with local staff in Taiwan in a virtual space. Let's give it a try.  

側近：Okay, I'm connected to the outside world right now.  

記者：Yes. Okay, I'll give it a try. Thank you.  

側近：Hello.  

記者：Hello. Nice to meet you.  

側近：Nice to meet you, too.  

記者：Wow. I'm speaking Japanese, but it's being translated in real time.  

側近：Is Taiwan cold?  

記者：Yes, it is. It's 20 degrees in Taiwan.  

側近：20 degrees? It's quite warm. It's very cold in Japan.  

記者：By the way, what time is it now?  

側近：It's 9 o'clock in Taiwan.  

記者：So, it's an hour. It's so fast. I can't even feel the time lag.  

側近：In order to reproduce such a complex metabarse space, a large amount of data transmission is required, and long distances cause a lot of delay.  

記者：In other words…  

側近：It's ION.  

記者：Yes, that's right. At ION's All Photonics Network, we minimize the delay as much as possible to make the experience in the metabarse space smoother.  

側近：It was really a future to be able to talk to each other in my mother tongue.  

記者：Now, we are in Taiwan, but our next goal is to connect to the whole world by connecting to other countries and regions.  

側近：It's a really exciting technology that can connect with everyone beyond the walls of people's words and places.  

記者：Hello.  

側近：Hello. This is an exhibition for light-emitting computers.  

記者：Computers?  

側近：Yes. Are you doing such research?  

記者：Yes, that's right. It's not just a computer, it's a quantum computer.  

側近：What can a quantum computer actually do?  

記者：For example, medicine. In the field of medicine, the calculation that was complicated and given up in the current computer can now be calculated properly using a quantum computer.  

側近：By doing so, you may be able to make new medicine.  

記者：New medicine… Then, you may be able to cure diseases that you haven't been able to cure before.  

側近：By the way, Ms. Nagahama, why do you think we, NTT, are researching quantum computers?  

記者：The hint is ion.  

側近：Ion? When you explained it to me earlier, you said it was a light-emitting computer. Is it light?  

記者：That's right. It's light. In fact, there are various types of quantum computers, but we are researching quantum light.  

側近：NTT has been conducting research on light communication for more than 50 years, and this device has also been developed over 20 years.  

記者：That's a long history.  

側近：Thanks to our seniors' years of research, NTT is now leading the world in the field of quantum light.  

記者：That's romantic.  

側近：It seemed like a dream to use light for computing, but it changed with the light components here.