*********
My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Our economy has made considerable progress toward both goals over the past two years. The labor market has come into better balance with continued strong job gains and a low unemployment rate. Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7 percent to 2.7 percent, but is still too high. We are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent goal in support of a strong economy that benefits everyone. 

Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. We are maintaining our restrictive stance of monetary policy in order to keep demand in line with supply and reduce inflationary pressures. I'll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace. Although GDP growth moderated from 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of last year to 1.3 percent in the first quarter, private domestic final purchases, which excludes inventory investment, government spending, and net exports, and usually sends a clearer signal on underlying demand, grew at 2.8 percent in the first quarter, nearly as strong as the second half of 2023. Growth of consumer spending has slowed from last year's robust pace, but remains solid. And investment in equipment and intangibles has picked up from its anemic pace last year. Improving supply conditions have supported resilient demand and the strong performance of the U.S. economy over the past year. 

In our summary of economic projections, Committee participants generally expect GDP growth to slow from last year's pace, with a median projection of 2.1 percent this year and 2.0 percent over the next two years. In the labor market, supply and demand conditions have come into better balance. Payroll job gains averaged 218,000 jobs per month in April and May, a pace that is still strong but a bit below that seen in the first quarter. The unemployment rate ticked up, but remains low at 4 percent. Strong job creation over the past couple of years has been accompanied by an increase in the supply of workers, reflecting increases in participation among individuals aged 25 to 54 years, and a continued strong growth in the labor market. 

The U.S. economy has been in a good place over the past year, with a median projection of 2.0 percent over the past two years, a median projection of 2.0 percent over the past two years, and a continued strong pace of immigration. Nominal wage growth has eased over the past year, and the jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market have returned to about where they stood on the eve of the pandemic-relatively tight but not overheated. 

The U.S. economy is expected to continue to grow at 4.0 percent at the end of this year and 4.2 percent at the end of next year. Inflation has eased notably over the past two years, but remains above our longer-run goal of 2 percent. Total PCE prices rose 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in April, excluding the volatile food and energy categories. Core PCE prices rose 2.8 percent. The Consumer Price Index, which came out this morning as the PCE price index, rose 3.3 percent over the 12 months ending in May, and the core CPI rose 3.4 percent. Inflation data received earlier this year were higher than expected, though more recent monthly readings have eased somewhat. 

Longer-term inflation expectations appear to remain well-anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households and businesses and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.6 percent this year, 2.3 percent next year, and 2.0 percent in 2026. 

My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials, like food, housing, and transportation. 

Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. In support of these goals, the Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5.25 to 5.5 percent and to continue reducing our securities holdings. 

As labor market tightness has eased and inflation has declined over the past year, the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals have moved toward better balance. The economic outlook is uncertain, however, and we remain highly attentive to inflation risks. We've stated that we do not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range for the federal funds rate until we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. So far this year, the data have not given us that greater confidence. The most recent inflation readings have been more favorable than earlier in the year, however, and there has been modest further progress toward our inflation objective. We'll need to see more good data to bolster our confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. 

We know that reducing policy restraint too soon or too much could result in a reversal of the progress that we've seen on inflation. At the same time, reducing policy restraint too late or too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering any adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully review and assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. 

In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. If the economy evolves as expected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 5.1 percent at the end of this year, 4.1 percent at the end of 2025, and 3.1 percent at the end of 2026. 

But these projections are not a Committee plan or any kind of a decision. As the economy evolves, assessments of the appropriate policy path will adjust in order to best promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we're prepared to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate as long as a possible. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or if inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we're prepared to respond. Policy is well-positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. We'll continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the data and its implications for the outlook and the balance of risks. 

The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy- maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Restoring price stability is essential to achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the long run. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do our best to ensure that our public mission is a success. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you, and I look forward to your questions. 

STEVE LIESMAN. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Steve Liesman, CNBC. I'm just wondering if you could walk me through the Committee's average inflation forecast. Core PCE is now forecast to be 2.8 percent by the year-end. It was forecast to be 2.75, and after today's number, there were several forecasts on the street that it would be 2.6 at the end of this month. Does that tell you that the average official expects no further progress in inflation, and, in fact, that it's going to get worse? And if you have this wrong, doesn't it mean that you sort of-you could have wronged the outlook for rates there? 

CHAIRMAN POWELL. 
Yes. So what's going on there is that we had very low readings in the second half of last year, June through December, really, and we're now lapping those. So as you go through the 12-month window, a very low reading drops out and a new reading comes in. The new reading gets added to the 12-month window. So it's just a slight element of conservatism that we're assuming a certain level of, you know, incoming monthly PCE and core PCE numbers. So, you know, good but not great numbers. And if you put that on top of where we are now, you get a very slight increase in the 12-month reading. 

Now, do we have high confidence that that's right? No. It's just a kind of conservative way for forecasting things. If we were to get more readings like today's reading, then, of course, that wouldn't be the case. So it's just a forecasting device. I think-let me say that we welcome today's reading and hope for more like that. 

But if it comes in-just to follow up-it comes in the way you forecast it, it would seem strange for you to be cutting rates at all in context of a rising core PCE. Thank you. 

Yeah, no, I mean, I think we've-what we've said is that we don't think it'll be appropriate to reduce rates and begin to loosen policy until we have more confidence that inflation is moving back down to 2 percent on a sustainable basis. And that's the test we've applied. I don't know that-I think if we-I don't know that this rules that in or out. 

I mean, really, it's a forecast, a fairly conservative forecast month by month that would lead to slightly higher, you know, 12-months rates by the end of the year. If we get, you know, good, better ratings than that, then you will see that come down or remain the same. If you're at 2.6, 2.7, you know, that's a really good place to be. 

Nick Tamarosa, The Wall Street Journal. 
Chair Powell, if I look at the rate projections, I see 15 of the 19 that are anticipating either one or two cut-two cuts this year, fairly evenly split between the two. And so I wonder if you could explain a little bit more the nuances of the differences there. Would two or three more inflation readings, like the one that we saw this morning, make a September interest rate cut possible? 

CHAIRMAN POWELL. 
So, as far as the SEP part of that is concerned, as you know, I talk to all of the other participants on the FOMC every cycle, and we talk about their summary of economic projections and their dot plot and everything. And what I hear and see is that people are looking at, you know, a range of plausible outcomes. 

And in many cases, they're thinking, I don't really, you know, I can't really distinguish between two of these. They're so close for me. These are very close calls. But we ask them to write down the most likely one. So they do. And I think you've-as you've said, there's 15 of the 19 are kind of clustered around one or two. So I think I would look at all-I'd look at all of them as plausible. But I'd look at-so I think that does tell you kind of what the Committee thinks. 

But what everyone agrees on is it's going to be data dependent. No one brings to this or takes away from it, that is on the Committee, a really strong commitment to a particular rate path. It's actually just their forecast and their-it's a combination of their forecast and their own reaction function. But, again, everyone would say that this is very data dependent and I don't hold it with high confidence. And I think if you're looking for-and don't really think that they're-they're not trying to send a strong signal that this is what I think is the right thing. 

It's just what they think at a given moment in time subject to data. In terms of, you know, future meetings, we haven't-you know, we don't-we don't try to-we don't make decisions about future meetings until we get there. I think, in terms of what we need to see-I mentioned it earlier-we want to gain further confidence. Certainly more good inflation readings will help with that. I'm not going to be specific about how many because, you know, really it's going to be not just the inflation ratings. It's going to be the totality of the data-what's happening in the labor market, what's happening with the balance of risks, what's happening with the forecast, what's happening with growth. You look at all of that and you ask, are we confident-have we reached an appropriate level of confidence that inflation is moving down sustainably to 2 percent? Or, alternatively, do we see really unexpected signs of weakness in the labor market that would call for a response, which is-which is another thing that could-could happen. 

But, again, we don't see that. And I-we do see today's-we see today's report as-as progress and as, you know, building confidence. But we-we don't see ourselves as having the confidence that would warrant-you know, that would warrant beginning to loosen policy at this time. And if I could quickly follow up. 

Nick:
Did you or any of your colleagues change your interest rate projections after 8:30 or whenever you got the inflation numbers today? 

CHAIRMAN POWELL. 
So we-this happens too often, but it does happen. It just is, you know, data came-I think it happened a couple of minutes ago-a few minutes ago. So when that happens, when there's an important data print during the meeting, first day or second day, what we do is we-we make sure people remember that they have the ability to update. We tell them how to do that. And-and some people do, some people don't. Most-most people don't. 

But-and I'm not going to get into the specifics, but you have the ability to do that so that, you know, what's in the SEP actually does reflect the data that we got today to the extent you can, you know, reflect it in one day. I think we'll-you know, we'll see PPI tomorrow. We'll know more about the PCE reading as the month goes on, but the initial CPI reading and its, you know, kind of first-level translation to-to PCE, we did have this morning. We were briefed about it, and people were able to consider whether they should make changes. And, as I said, you know, some people generally do, but most people generally don't. 

Janelle Marte
Hi, Chair Powell. Janelle Marte from Bloomberg. As you noted, the labor market is now, in many ways, back to where it was before the pandemic. I wondered if you could comment on how officials are viewing that. So, do you think that there still needs to be more cooling in the labor market to bring inflation all the way down to 2 percent, or is there any sense that maybe the labor market is more vulnerable now to higher rates now that many of those imbalances have eased? 

CHAIR POWELL. 
Sure. So, by so many measures, the labor market was-was kind of overheated two years ago, and we've seen it gradually move back into much better balance between supply and demand. So what have we seen? We've seen labor force supply come up quite a bit through immigration and through recovering participation. That's ongoing mostly now through the immigration channel, but still we've had some increases in prime-age labor force. In terms of-on the demand side, you know, we've seen-well, we've seen quits moving down. We've seen job openings moving down. We've seen wage increases moving from very, very high levels a couple of years ago back down to more sustainable levels. We have seen unemployment creep up now six-tenths over the course of a year or so, very, very gradually. So you put all that together, what you have is still low unemployment, still 4 percent unemployment. It's still 4 percent unemployment, historically low. But it's moved up a little bit. It's softened a bit. And, you know, that's an important statistic. 

But more than that, you've got strong job creation. You have payroll jobs still coming in strong, even though, you know, there's an argument that they may be a bit overstated, but still, they're still-they're strong. So that's what we see. We watch the labor market, of course, and the economy as a whole, but the labor market very carefully, and that's what we see. We see gradual cooling, gradual moving toward better balance. We're monitoring it carefully for signs of something more than that, but we really don't see that. 

Janelle Marte
As a quick follow-up, the surveys that make up the jobs report are showing different tales. There's been some divergence, especially we saw in the last report that we got on Friday. So how do you interpret that, and how does it change your view on the labor market? 

CHAIR POWELL. 
So sometimes it's-you can't reconcile the differences. You just have to look at it and try to understand. And that's why it always makes sense to look at a series, you know, in six-three, six, and 12 months of things, rather than just one report. But you're right to point to the last report, where there was job losses in the household survey, job gains, big job gains in the establishment survey. So, I mean, we're left with ambiguous results, and we have to deal with that uncertainty around data. Nonetheless, the overall picture is one of a strong and gradually cooling, gradually rebalancing labor market. Job openings, while they've come way down, are still, you know, greater than the number of unemployed people. The jobs workers gap is still a significantly positive number, greater than it was before the pandemic. So, overall, we're looking at what is still a very strong labor market, but not the superheated labor market of two years ago, or even one year ago. Thank you.
*********
私の同僚と私は、米国民の利益のために、最大限の雇用と安定した物価という二大目標を達成することに全力を傾注している。過去2年間、わが国経済はこの2つの目標に向けてかなりの進歩を遂げた。労働市場は、力強い雇用の増加が続き、失業率も低水準で推移している。インフレ率はピーク時の7%から2.7%へと大幅に緩和されたが、まだ高すぎる。我々は、すべての人に恩恵をもたらす力強い経済を支えるため、インフレ率を2％の目標に戻すことに強くコミットしている。

本日FOMCは、政策金利の据え置きと、保有証券の削減を継続することを決定した。需要を供給と一致させ、インフレ圧力を軽減するため、我々は金融政策の引き締め効果を維持している。金融政策については、経済情勢を簡単に振り返ってからお話しします。最近の指標は、経済活動が堅調なペースで拡大を続けていることを示唆している。GDP成長率は昨年第4四半期の3.4％から第1四半期は1.3％へと緩やかになったものの、在庫投資、政府支出、純輸出を除いた民間国内最終購買額は第1四半期に2.8％となり、2023年下半期とほぼ同水準の力強い伸びとなった。個人消費は昨年の堅調な伸びから鈍化したものの、引き続き堅調である。設備投資と無形資産投資は、昨年の低調なペースから回復している。供給環境の改善が、昨年来の底堅い需要と米国経済の好調を支えている。

経済予測の要約では、委員会参加者は概してGDP成長率が昨年のペースから鈍化すると予想しており、中央値では今年が2.1％、今後2年間が2.0％と予想されている。労働市場では、需給バランスが改善した。4月と5月の雇用者数は月平均21万8,000人増加し、このペースは依然好調だが、第1四半期をやや下回った。失業率は上昇したが、依然4％と低い水準にある。ここ数年の力強い雇用創出は、25歳から54歳までの労働参加率の上昇を反映した労働者供給の増加と、労働市場の継続的な力強い成長を伴っている。

米 国 経 済 はこの1年、過去2年間の予想中央値が2.0％、過去2年間の予想中央値が2.0％、そして移民の増加ペースが引き続き好調であった。名目賃金の伸びはこの1年で緩和し、雇用と労働者の格差は縮小した。全体として、労働市場の状況はパンデミック前夜とほぼ同じ水準に戻ったことを示唆している。

米国経済は今年末に4.0％、来年末に4.2％の成長を続けると予想される。インフレ率は過去2年間で著しく低下したが、長期目標である2％を依然上回っている。PCE総合物価は、変動の激しい食品とエネルギーのカテゴリーを除き、4月までの12ヵ月間に2.7%上昇した。コアPCE価格は2.8%上昇した。PCE価格指数として今朝発表された消費者物価指数は、5月までの12ヵ月間で3.3％上昇し、コアCPIは3.4％上昇した。今年初めに発表されたインフレ率は予想を上回ったが、最近の月次観測値はやや緩やかになっている。

家計、企業、予測担当者を対象とした広範な調査や金融市場の指標に反映されているように、長期的なインフレ期待は依然安定しているようだ。SEPのPCEインフレ予想中央値は、今年2.6%、来年2.3%、2026年2.0%である。

私の同僚と私は、高インフレが購買力を低下させ、特に食料、住宅、交通などの必需品のコスト上昇に対応できない人々にとって、大きな苦難をもたらすことを痛感している。

我々の金融政策行動は、米国民のために最大限の雇用と安定した物価を促進するという、我々の二重の使命に導かれている。これらの目標を支援するため、本日の会合で当委員会は、FF金利の目標レンジを5.25～5.5%に維持し、保有有価証券の削減を継続することを決定した。

過去1年間に労働市場の逼迫が緩和し、インフレ率が低下したことで、雇用とインフレの目標達成に向けたリスクはより良いバランスへと向かっている。しかし経済の先行きは不透明であり、インフレ・リスクには引き続き注意を払っている。FF金利の目標レンジを引き下げることが適切なのは、インフレ率が持続的に2%に向かっていると確信が持てるようになってからである。今年に入ってからのデータからは、そのような確信が得られていない。しかし、直近のインフレ観測は年初より良好であり、インフレ目標に向けた前進は緩やかである。インフレ率が持続的に2%に向かっているという確信を強めるには、さらに良好なデータを見る必要がある。

政策抑制を早急に、あるいは過度に縮小すれば、これまでのインフレ率の進展を覆す結果になりかねないことは承知しています。同時に、政策抑制の縮小が遅すぎたり少なすぎたりすれば、経済活動や雇用を不当に弱めかねない。FF金利の目標レンジの調整を検討する際、委員会は入ってくるデータ、変化する見通し、リスクのバランスを注意深く検討・評価する。

我々のSEPでは、FOMC参加者は、各自が今後最も可能性が高いと判断するシナリオに基づき、FF金利の適切な道筋に関する各自の評価を書き出した。経済が予想通りに進展した場合、FF金利の適切な水準は今年末に5.1％、2025年末に4.1％、2026年末に3.1％になると予想する参加者が中央値に達した。

しかし、これらの予測は委員会の計画でもなければ、何らかの決定でもない。経済が発展するにつれて、最大限の雇用と物価安定の目標を最良に推進するために、適切な政策経路の評価は調整される。経済が堅調に推移し、インフレが持続するのであれば、FF金利の現在の目標レンジを可能な限り維持する用意がある。労働市場が予想外に弱まったり、インフレ率が予想以上に急速に低下した場合には、対応する用意がある。私たちの政策方針は、その両面を追求する上で直面するリスクや不確実性に対処する態勢が整っています。FRBは今後も、データの全体像と、それが見通しとリスクのバランスに与える影響に基づき、会合ごとに意思決定を行っていく。

FRBには金融政策として、最大限の雇用と安定した物価という2つの目標が課せられている。FRBは引き続き、インフレ率を目標である2%まで低下させ、長期的なインフレ期待を適切に維持することに全力を尽くしています。物価の安定を回復させることは、長期的に最大限の雇用と安定した物価を達成するために不可欠です。これらの目標を達成するための我々の成功は、すべてのアメリカ国民にとって重要である。私たちの行動が、国全体に渡って地域社会、家族、企業に影響を与えることを理解しています。私たちの行動はすべて、公的使命に奉仕するものです。私たちFRB は、私たちの公共的使命が成功するよう最善を尽くします。私たちFRBは、最大限の雇用と物価安定の目標を達成するために全力を尽くします。ご質問をお待ちしています。

スティーブ・リースマン 
ありがとうございました、議長。CNBCのスティーブ・リースマンです。委員会の平均インフレ見通しについて教えてください。コアPCEは年末までに2．以前は2.75と予想されていましたが、今日の数字の後、巷では今月末には2.6になるだろうという予想がいくつかありました。これは、平均的な当局者がインフレはこれ以上進展せず、むしろ悪化すると予想していることを示しているのだろうか？もしこれが間違っているとしたら、金利の見通しを誤ったということになりませんか？

パウエル議長。
そうです。昨年後半、つまり6月から12月にかけて非常に低い観測がありましたが、今はそれを上回っています。つまり、12カ月を経過するにつれて、非常に低い観測値がなくなり、新しい観測値が入ってくるのです。新しい観測値は12ヶ月のウィンドウに追加される。つまり、月次PCEとコアPCEの数値が一定の水準にあることを想定しているということです。つまり、良い数字ではあるが素晴らしい数字ではないということだ。そして、それを現在の水準に上乗せすると、12ヶ月の観測値はごくわずかに上昇することになります。

さて、この数字が正しいと確信できるでしょうか？いや、これは一種の保守的な予測方法だ。今日のような観測が増えれば、もちろんそうではない。だから、これはあくまでも予測なんだ。今日のような観測を歓迎し、今後もこのような観測が続くことを願っている。

しかし、もし利下げがあなたの予想通りに行われるのであれば、コアPCEが上昇している状況で利下げを行うのは奇妙に思えるでしょう。ありがとうございます。

インフレ率が持続可能なベースで2%に戻りつつあるという確信が持てるまで、利下げや政策緩和を開始するのは適切なことではないと考えています。これが私たちが適用してきたテストです。このテストが、インフレが持続可能なベースで2％に戻るという確信が得られるまで、利下げや政策緩和を開始することが適切であるかどうかを判断するものです。

つまり、これはかなり保守的な月ごとの予測であり、年末までに12カ月物レートがわずかに上昇するというものだ。もし、それよりも良い評価が得られれば、12ヵ月率は下がるか、変わらないでしょう。2.6、2.7であれば、本当にいいところです。

ウォール・ストリート・ジャーナルのニック・タマロサです。
パウエル議長、金利見通しを見ると、19のうち15が今年の利下げを1回または2回と予想しています。その違いのニュアンスをもう少し説明していただけませんか。今朝のようなインフレ観測が2回、3回と続けば、9月の利下げが可能になるのでしょうか？

パウエル議長 
SEPの部分に関して言えば、ご存知のように、私はFOMCの他の参加者全員と毎回のように話をし、彼らの経済予測のサマリーやドットプロットなどについて話しています。そして、私が見聞きするのは、FOMC参加者は、もっともらしい結果の範囲に注目しているということです。

そして多くの場合、この2つを区別することはできない、と考えている。私にとってはとても近い。これらは非常に僅差だ。でも、一番可能性の高い方を書き出してもらうんです。そうするんだ。あなたが言ったように、19個のうち15個が1つか2つに集中しています。だから、私なら全部をもっともらしいと見ます。しかし、私なら......つまり、これで委員会の考えがわかると思います。

しかし、誰もが同意しているのは、データに左右されるということです。委員会には、特定の金利パスに対する強いコミットメントを持ち込む人も持ち帰る人もいません。実際には、彼らの予想と反応関数の組み合わせに過ぎない。しかし、繰り返しますが、これは非常にデータに依存するものであり、高い信頼性を持ってはいないと誰もが言うでしょう。そして、もしあなたが探しているのであれば、彼らは......私が正しいと思うのはこれだ、という強いシグナルを送ろうとしているわけではないと思います。

データに基づいて現時点で彼らがどう考えているかに過ぎない。将来の会合については、まだ決定していない......というか、決定しようとしない......決定するまで決定しない。先ほども申し上げましたが、私たちはさらなる信認を得たいと考えています。確かに、インフレ観測が高まれば、その助けとなるでしょう。具体的な数については申し上げられませんが、インフレ率だけではありません。労働市場で何が起きているのか、リスクバランスで何が起きているのか、予測で何が起きているのか、成長で何が起きているのか。これらすべてを見て、インフレ率が2％まで持続的に低下するという適切な確信のレベルに達しているのか？あるいは、労働市場に本当に予期せぬ弱さの兆候が見られ、それに対応する必要があるのか。

しかし、今回もそのような兆候は見られない。そして、私たちは今日の報告を、前進であり、信頼感の醸成であると見ている。しかし、私たちは、現時点で政策を緩和し始めることを正当化するような自信を私たち自身が持っているとは考えていません。ついでに言わせてもらえば。

ニック：
今日の8時30分以降、あるいはインフレ率の数字が出た時点で、あなたや同僚の誰かが金利予想を変更しましたか？

パウエル議長 
これはあまりに頻繁に起こることですが、実際に起こります。ただ、データが出たのは数分前だったと思います。そのようなことが起こった場合、重要なデータが会議中に印刷された場合、初日であれ2日目であれ、私たちがすることは、更新する能力があることを忘れないようにすることです。その方法を伝えるんだ。そうする人もいれば、そうでない人もいる。ほとんどの人はそうではない。

しかし、具体的な内容には触れませんが、SEPに記載されている内容は、1日で反映できる範囲で、今日得たデータを実際に反映させることができるのです。明日にはPPIが発表されるでしょう。PCE観測については月が明ければもっとわかるでしょうが、最初のCPI観測とそのPCEへの第一段階の変換については今朝わかりました。私たちはそれについて説明を受け、人々は変更を加えるべきかどうかを検討することができました。そして、申し上げたように、一般的にはそうする人もいますが、ほとんどの人はそうしません。

ジャネル・マルテ
パウエル議長、こんにちは。ブルームバーグのジャネル・マルテです。ご指摘の通り、労働市場は多くの点でパンデミック以前に戻っています。あなたの見解をお聞かせください。インフレ率を2％まで下げるには、労働市場の冷え込みがまだ必要だとお考えなのでしょうか、それとも、多くの不均衡が緩和された今、労働市場は金利上昇に対してより脆弱になったとお考えなのでしょうか？

パウエル委員長。
そうですね。多くの指標から見て、労働市場は2年前には過熱気味でしたが、徐々に需給バランスが取れてきました。では、何が起こったのでしょうか？労働力供給は、移民と労働参加の回復によってかなり増加しました。労働力供給は、移民と労働参加率の回復によってかなり増加しました。現在、そのほとんどは移民によるものですが、それでも初老期の労働力人口は増加しています。需要面では、退職者が減少しています。求人数は減少している。賃金上昇は、数年前の非常に高い水準から、より持続可能な水準へと下がっている。失業率は1年ほどの間に0.6上昇した。その結果、失業率は依然として低く、4％となっている。失業率はまだ4％で、歴史的な低さだ。しかし、少し上昇した。少し軟化した。これは重要な統計です。

しかし、それ以上に雇用創出が好調です。少し誇張されているのではないかという議論もありますが、それでも、雇用創出は力強い。ですから、私たちはそれを見ているのです。私たちは労働市場を注視しています。もちろん、経済全体もそうですが、労働市場も注意深く見ています。緩やかな冷え込み、より良いバランスへの緩やかな動きが見られます。それ以上の兆候はないかと注意深く見守っていますが、実際にそのような兆候は見られません。

ジャネル・マルテ
簡単なフォローアップとして、雇用統計を構成する各調査はそれぞれ異なる結果を示している。特に金曜日に発表された最終報告では、いくつかの乖離が見られました。それをどう解釈し、労働市場に対するあなたの見解をどう変えるのですか？

パウエル委員長。
その違いを調整できないこともあります。ただ、それを見て理解しようとするしかない。だからこそ、1つの報告書だけでなく、6ヵ月、3ヵ月、6ヵ月、12ヵ月と、一連のものを見ることは常に意味のあることなのです。しかし、あなたの言う通り、前回の報告書では、家計調査では雇用が減少し、事業所調査では雇用が大幅に増加した。つまり、曖昧な結果が残されており、データの不確実性に対処しなければならない。とはいえ、全体的なイメージとしては、労働市場は力強く、徐々に冷え込み、徐々にリバランスしている。求人数は大幅に減少したとはいえ、失業者数を上回っている。雇用者数格差は依然として大幅なプラスで、パンデミック前よりも拡大している。ですから、全体的に見れば、労働市場は依然として非常に好調ですが、2年前、あるいは1年前のような過熱した労働市場ではありません。ありがとうございました。
